design-trends-2017-include-modular-furniture-and-bright
https://www.scmp.com/print/magazines/style/tech-design/article/2096472/design-trends-2017-include-modular-furniture-and-bright
2017-06-01T04:45:30.000Z
For home enthusiasts, nothing is more exciting than weaving through a packed crowd in a sea of furniture and home essentials. Every year, thousands of exhibitors flock to the heartlands of furniture manufacturing to display their latest home design creations. There’s just so much to see, so we have highlighted the leading trends at international furniture fairs, from the finely-crafted collectibles shown at Salone del Mobile in Milan and International Contemporary Furniture Fair (ICFF), to the cutting-edge items on the growing regional star Design Days Dubai.
Fashion heavyweights enjoy a strong presence in the interior design domain. High-profile names include Loewe and Armani Casa. Louis Vuitton’s Objets Nomades exhibition at Milan’s Salone del Mobile displayed memorable travel pieces by renowned designers from around the world. The same kind of collaboration was evident in Vick Vanlian’s peculiar multidecked console with table legs dressed in sequinned heels from fashion designer Zuhair Murad’s latest collection, shown at Design Days Dubai.


Modular furniture has been on the modern home’s wish-list to meet growing needs for sustainable furniture. This year, British star designer Tom Dixon joins hands with IKEA for the first time to create the Delaktig modular sofa and bed.
The versatile concept continues in his chandelier collections which contain similar small pieces grouped in clusters to fit any space and occasion.
Another noticeable trend at the fairs is the super sofa, in terms of the super size and flexible function. The sofa, indispensable furniture in a home, plays an important role in defining the space. Fendi Casa’s exclusive Six Shades of Palmer sofa designed by Toan Nguyen achieves that purpose with its modular structure for comfort and character.

Antonio Citterio does the same with his Richard sofa. Composed of 76 elements, the design is available in 93cm and 123cm depths, for complete relaxation.
This year, the world of home design has witnessed a return to vibrant palettes. Spanish company Capdell celebrates its 50th anniversary at ICFF New York with a daring mix of colours. The Mirò chairs from the Claesson Koivisto Rune Chairs Collection and the Insula Modular Seating Systems designed by Patrick Norguet are available in a range of hues. Bright shades also dominate Italian company Adrenalina’s collection of armchairs with symmetrical structures.

