how-find-trend-furniture-hong-kong
https://www.scmp.com/print/magazines/style/tech-design/article/2056863/how-find-trend-furniture-hong-kong
2016-12-23T06:45:45.000Z
To capture the high-spirited Play Date trend, check out the new designs by British furniture and lighting brand Lee Broom, including classics such as the Crystal Bulb, Hanging Hoop Chair and Tube Light, as well as the recent Crescent Light, Mini Crescent and Optical collections.
Norr11’s chair and lamp, and &tradition’s desk & chair set are examples of the Grey Scale trend – the look that teams shades of grey or other monochromatic cool colours, with warm earthenware. Brands that do this well, channelling a sleek and sophisticated Scandinavian vibe, are emerging Danish furniture companies Norr11 and &tradition.
Team with handcrafted objects to add warmth and texture – such as the beautiful, crotched artisan lamps from celebrated London “maker” Naomi Paul (stocked by Lane Crawford).
Continuing the craft theme into accessories, TREE has a new range of ceramics handmade in Bali by Australian ceramicist and designer Fliss Dodd, with a Hong Kong twist: the collection of mugs, bowls and storage containers features names of districts – from Kennedy Town and Victoria Harbour to Shek O and Mong Kok – loosely handwritten and wrapped around each piece.
Still in the patriotic spirit, add a new cushion in G.O.D.’s signature print, the Letterbox. Each one distinctly painted, this vintage-inspired textile rekindles memories of the old letterboxes that were scattered throughout hallways in older Hong Kong buildings.
Tap the upcycling trend with a signature piece such as the Billchair from Self., the British design studio known for its high-end, exquisitely restored and redesigned vintage furniture. The special-edition Billchair was launched in 1981, in Frome Somerset, and revived in September 2016, in Godalming, England. “This great, little chair is equally at home at the dining table and the office. Its simple curves and lines make it a classic,” says Tracy Kwan, director of lifestyle at Lane Crawford.
Or head to TREE to check out the Organik collection of tables, bench seating and room dividers made from Forest Stewardship Council-certified recycled teak and mixed hardwoods. Made in Indonesia, these pieces are fused together with traditional butterfly key joinery to retain the natural character of the wood.
No interior scheme is complete without introducing a few eco-friendly accents – such as the SATTRUP rug from Ikea, flatwoven from sisal, a natural fibre taken from the agave plant.
This article was originally published in Home Essentials

