smart-homes-provide-convenience-and-sustainable-living
https://www.scmp.com/print/magazines/style/article/1780091/smart-homes-provide-convenience-and-sustainable-living
2015-05-07T13:00:45.000Z
From rainwater harvesting to hydroponic gardens, remotely controllable home appliances to alterable furniture and storage, homes today are certainly becoming smarter and more intuitive. According to experts, however, it's not just about buying the latest gadget or installation; today's home is about customisation and synchronicity - including features that enhance the homeowner's life while also improving the design aesthetic.
"As the world rapidly changes, our ability to predict future needs becomes increasingly limited," says award-winning Australian architect Andrew Maynard. "Quite simply, our homes need to be adaptable so that they can adjust to technological and environmental change."
Known for his futuristic, eco-friendly designs, Maynard believes that we should be doing more with less and, wherever possible, we should aim for self-sufficient, off-grid homes, as this benefits our environment and us.
Positioning windows, doors and spaces correctly, and keeping in mind plans for possible expansion or modification - turning a study into a nursery, for instance - are also important considerations.
"When designing a home, I think about the sun. I try to make all of the shared spaces - dining, kitchen, living and study, face the sun and garden. Utility spaces and bedrooms can occupy areas away from the sun. Architects need to get these basic principles right. You can add technology wherever you wish. However, if you get the orientation wrong, then you've made a critical mistake that you can't change," Maynard says.
He also suggests that homeowners start thinking about items such as solar panels, power points and optic cabling for communications and IT before they design their homes. "Our homes need to be technological agile," he says.
But technology also brings a certain amount of extra clutter - gadgets, remote controls and wiring, therefore designers need to make furniture that conceals things better. "No one wants to see power points and cables. Designers need to think about where to hide them without making them difficult to access. It takes a lot of effort to make something look effortless," Maynard says.
One brand that has done a good job making their designs look effortless is German luxury kitchen brand Bulthaup, which specialises in tailor-made installations.
"Today's digitised, globalised world is marked by an ever-growing desire for personal growth and authenticity. People are on a quest for emotional experiences and individuality," says Marc Eckert, CEO of Bulthaup, who addresses this need through customisation.
Multifunctional walls that conceal water, electric and gas systems, kitchen workbenches and streamline storage cabinets are just some of the products created by Bulthaup that can be assembled as needed. "The smart kitchen needs to be aligned with people's individual lives. It should be their own space that they create by defining the functions that are important to them, and it should embody their ever-changing life plans," Eckert says.
Further simplifying life in the kitchen are American brands Wolf, which specialises in smart cooking instruments, and Subzero, which manufacturers refrigerators, freezers and wine coolers. These brands offer the homeowner ways in which to monitor their appliances remotely, allowing for increased safety and flexibility.
With Wolf, for example, the homeowner can sync the appliances to home-automated control systems. According to Doug Swank, vice-president of design engineering at Wolf, this "allows users to view the oven's temperature, receive preheat notifications, timer alerts and even monitor the internal meat temperature".
Similarly, Sub-Zero offers an assurance of safety to the homeowner by its special notifications and features. "Sub-Zero built-in refrigeration products are also compatible with these systems, and will notify the owner if the refrigerator door has been left open, or change the refrigeration interior setting to the energy-saving 'vacation mode' if the owner is away for an extended period of time," says Paul Sikir, vice-president of design engineering, Sub-Zero.
Such home-automated control systems are becoming a key feature of the smart home. At present, systems offered by brands such as NuBryte, Control4, Crestron and Savant are clever enough to integrate everything from climate and lighting control to music, home entertainment, security, iPads and smartphones. This helps owners save energy and money while they enjoy more convenience and peace of mind.
Alan Yuan, founder and CEO of smart lighting and security system NuBryte, says: "Ultimately, a smart home is one that makes everyday tasks easier for homeowners - everything from switching lights on and off, to setting a security alarm when you leave the house, to managing the home heating and cooling. Life will be much more convenient if all the devices and appliances within the home are connected, allowing them to synchronise and communicate with each other to anticipate a homeowner's actions and habits."
But with the slew of technical gadgetry available for home owners today - refrigerators with internet screens, portable video intercom systems, electrically operated curtains, finger print and eye retina scanning door locks to name a few, how does one decide what's smart and what's not?
According to Hong Kong interior designer and director of Liquid Studio Leo Leung, homes are smart only when they enhance the quality of life for those living in them. "I see a lot of so-called smart homes now with too many controls and buttons. It sometimes takes weeks to learn how to operate them, and that's not smart. In a smart home, technology should be personalised with only the functions that the user needs, and it must be user friendly," Leung says.
"Spaces shouldn't be interrupted by technology no matter what the design style; the technology should blend in with the look and feel of the home. What's essential is to seamlessly connect and integrate the various technologies with good, efficient design."


