chinas-private-jet-market-expands
https://www.scmp.com/print/magazines/style/article/1653986/chinas-private-jet-market-expands
2014-12-11T14:00:45.000Z
From the clients' favourite bottle of Château Mouton Rothschild to their children's beloved blankets, Jenny Lau makes sure the private jet owners on her watch have all their needs met.
The in-flight butler duties are only a small part of the services Lau and her team at Sino Jet Management - the private jet management firm she founded in 2008 - provide. The firm covers the operational side of things, such as pilot recruiting, jet maintenance, applications for flight plans, routing requests and entry permits, while offering consultation on private jet purchasing and financing.
"We are very much like a commercial airline except the jets we operate are owned by our clients," says Lau, whose company manages more than 10 business jets, including the 14-seat Embraer Legacy 650 owned by action star Jackie Chan.
Private jet management agents such as Sino Jet Management are mushrooming in Hong Kong and on the mainland, hoping to tap the fast-growing Chinese business jet market. While infrastructure and policy makers are catching up to give private jets on the mainland the kind of flexibility that matches that of developed markets in Europe and North America, management agents seem to have taken off by offering complete services and total solutions.
Incentives are aplenty. To be qualified to fly, private jet owners need to go through a lengthy validation process of filing applications to the Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC).
"Current Chinese regulations require every private jet to be operated by a qualified operational manager," says Eric Wong, vice-chairman of NetJets China. The international firm manages more than 170 aircraft in the United States and launched branches in Hong Kong and on the mainland in June this year.
China's private jet sector is still a nascent industry in the booming economy. Regulations aside, the many hurdles undermining efficiency and flexibility for private fliers have increased their appetite for hiring managing agents.
"Many of our clients bought their own private jets so they could have more flexibility regarding where to fly to and when to fly," Lau says. "Jets are more than just something to show off their wealth - they are a key transportation means. Some of our clients wishing to buy their own jets don't know where to begin and that is where we come in."
Challenges facing today's private fliers include underdeveloped airport infrastructure - there are fewer than 200 civil airports compared to more than 5,200 in the US - high user fees - maintenance and operational costs can range from HK$8 million to HK$13 million per year - and a shortage of professionals such as pilots, mechanics and engineers.
Even flight approval procedures for business aircraft face stricter regulations. The process could take two to three days on the mainland whereas in Hong Kong or overseas, the process takes no more than four hours.
"The success of these operators relies on both internal and external factors," says Michael Han, regional vice-president, sales, Greater China, Bombardier Business Aircraft. "There are challenges that are specific to Chinese operators compared with their counterparts in mature business aviation markets."
The challenges are now becoming opportunities. Operating a fleet of business jets, management agents are able to build their own team of flying crew and maintenance engineers in order to offer competitive operational rates for their clients and at the same time guarantee the quality of service and efficiency.
NetJets China has planned its own cadet programme to train pilots in the United States.
The growing client base allows the agents to develop other business opportunities, such as chartering and second-hand aircraft trading. Investors are also actively tracking the growing market.
Earlier this year, Sino Jet Management was acquired by Tsinghua Holdings Capital established in 2003 with 2 billion yuan (HK$2.5 billion) of registered capital.
Management agents usually charge a monthly operational and managing fee according to the size and condition of their clients' aircraft. Sino Jet Management charges a US$15,000 to US$18,000 monthly fee. Clients get their own jet manager and maintenance crew.
The fee does not include the cost of fuel, parking and other aeronautical services. The management agents offer tailor-made services. "I come from a private banking background so I know our clients appreciate attention to detail," Lau says.
Wong agrees. "Sometimes small things can make a huge impact. Every single one of [our clients] is different, and our job is to cater to their special personal needs."
Due to China's strict regulations on general aviation, the players are mainly subsidiaries of major commercial airlines, such as Deer Jet (a subsidiary of Hainan Airlines), Beijing Airlines (affiliated to China National Aviation Holding Company) and Asia United Business Aviation (affiliated with Shenzhen Airlines). This group of operators often have a fleet of their own for chartering and are developing management services to meet rising demand.
The potential of China's private jet sector is far from being fully realised. According to market research by Bombardier Business Aircraft, the China market accounted for 6 per cent of worldwide industry deliveries last year compared to 2 per cent in 2009. However, order intakes accounted for 14 per cent of worldwide industry orders in 2013. Although there are about 330 business aircraft running in China right now, Bombardier expects about 2,225 jet deliveries in the next20 years. The gap between supply and demand has appealed to international players hoping to enter the Chinese market.
NetJets, despite its strong performance in executive jets chartering in the US, is focused on developing jet management on the mainland. "With NetJets' international network, we have the resources to cater to our clients' globetrotting travel agenda," Wong says.
"We have US clients flying commercial to China and chartering business jets for their road show across the mainland. There are also Chinese clients who fly privately to overseas destinations and choose to charter our local fleet for the rest of their journey."
Apart from the underdeveloped aviation industry on the mainland, companies' reluctance to offer products popular in developed markets such as chartering and joint ownership also has something to do with public perception on shared ownership of business jets.
"I think private jet owners not willing to share their aircrafts [has a bit to do with Chinese culture]. There are definitely some sentiments of having their jets for their exclusive use," Wong says. Lau agrees, saying: "Our clients prefer to have their own aircrafts to fit their schedules.
"We've got clients who shared a jet but eventually had to buy their own."
Industry veterans say the tide is changing and, as customers become more knowledgeable, they are more open to new ideas.
It's been 16 years since Zhang Yue, CEO, chairman and president of energy and construction company Broad Group, purchased a Cessna Citation jet, becoming China's first private jet owner. The country's ultrawealthy predominantly own high-performance, ultralong-range models.
"We have more than 90 aircraft based in mainland China, and approximately 90 per cent of those are large-cabin aircrafts. The demand continues to rise," says Steve Cass, Gulfstream Aerospace's vice-president, technical marketing and communications. "We have also seen growth in the number of mid-cabin aircrafts in the region, such as our 10-seat G280 [which can] fly from Beijing to Mumbai or Singapore non-stop."
Lau agrees. "Customers are no longer only after the biggest and the newest - they want to find the aircraft that suits their needs.
"They've realised the challenges in operation so they are becoming more sensible about the jets they buy. They are more sophisticated."
SERVICE PROVIDERS
Deer Jet
Backed by Hainan Airlines, Deer Jet is one of the first companies to offer management services for private aircraft in China. Its services include assisting customers import aircrafts, daily operation and management and other value-added services.
Sino Jet Management
From aircraft acquisition to financing and maintenance, the company offers all-round solutions for business jet owners. It operates more than 10 jets for clients here and on the mainland.
NetJets
The new China branch has two business jets on the mainland and offers aircraft management.
Metrojet
Established in Hong Kong in 1995, the firm adopts a luxury approach for ultrawealthy Chinese clients. In June, Metro Jet worked with Michelin-starred restaurant Duddell's to create a special menu for in-flight dining.
Business Aviation Asia
Founded in 2005, BAA was the first private joint-venture company to obtain an air operator certificate from the Civil Aviation Authority of China. It focuses mainly on aircraft management.


