supersonic-rebirth-flexjet-orders-first-20-ultra-fast-business-aircraft
https://www.scmp.com/print/news/world/article/1880064/supersonic-rebirth-flexjet-orders-first-20-ultra-fast-business-aircraft
2015-11-18T02:15:45.000Z
Published: 10:15am, 18 Nov, 2015
Updated: 10:20am, 18 Nov, 2015
Flexjet has ordered 20 of Aerion Corp’s planned AS2 supersonic business jets, which will make the private jet travel firm the first to offer publically available supersonic transport since the Concorde was grounded in 2003.
AS2, a planned three-engine jet that can carry eight to 12 passengers, is being developed by Aerion in collaboration with Airbus Group. It is expected to make its maiden flight in 2021 and enter service in 2023.
Flexjet, owned by Directional Aviation Capital, allows customers to buy a 'share' in a plane rather than purchasing one outright.
WATCH: Aerion's supersonic business jet, the AS2


Aerion, backed by Texas billionaire Robert Bass, plans to choose a manufacturing site during the first half of next year as it targets delivering the first faster-than-sound business aircraft in eight years.
The timeline unveiled Monday fleshes out how Aerion and partner Airbus intend to fill a niche left vacant since the retirement of the Concorde.
“We see clear and achievable technical solutions to the design of a supersonic jet, and a realistic road map for helping Aerion proceed toward construction and flight,” Airbus Senior Vice President Ken McKenzie said in a statement.
Airbus will provide major components and Aerion will do the final assembly, the companies said in the statement released at the National Business Aviation Association trade show in Las Vegas. For the production site, Aerion needs a 40-hectare area near a US airport with a runway at least 2,700 metres long. The plan is to break ground on the factory in 2018.
Aerion is targeting the first flight of the AS2 for 2021. The project began in 2002 and was put on hold by the 2008-09 financial crisis.
While military jets have had supersonic capabilities for decades, the economics are daunting for civilian operations. High ticket prices helped do in the Concorde after 27 years of service, which slurped twice as much fuel as a Boeing 747 jumbo jet while carrying only one-fourth as many passengers.
In the years since Air France and British Airways parked their Concordes, would-be supersonic jet developers have turned to business aircraft in hopes of putting newer technology in a smaller airframe to attract wealthy buyers and globe-trotting chief executive officers.
Aerion has begun to choose suppliers and plans to pick an engine maker during the first half of next year, CEO Doug Nichols said in the statement. The cabin will be developed by Inairvation, a venture between Lufthansa Technik AG and F. List GmbH.
“We will proceed with an engine that allows us to meet our performance goals with the minimum changes required,” Nichols said. “Solutions are in sight with today’s engine technology.”

