private-jet-revives-vintage-hollywood-us83-million-worth
https://www.scmp.com/print/magazines/style/travel-food/article/2098237/private-jet-revives-vintage-hollywood-us83-million-worth
2017-06-14T03:30:45.000Z
For many, private jet ownership is an opportunity to flaunt their individuality. This is especially true in the rarefied airspace of the ultra-large executive jet. As the biggest and the baddest private jets flying, owners of these converted airliners want to make their mega-dollar planes stand out from the crowd.
The Brazilian jet maker has long been a fan of highly stylized theme interiors. Last summer, Embraer introduced the far east-inspired Kyoto Airship and its stunning skylights. Later in the year, the company rolled out the Brazilian Rancher-meets-Texas-oil-tycoon themed the Skyranch One.
In its latest effort, Embraer offers its take on the glamour of Tinseltown in the 1930s with the Hollywood Airship.
“The Hollywood is steeped in MGM style, with a nod to film greats of the black and white movie era.,” the company wrote in its press kit. “Embraer pushes the design envelope in private aviation with the introduction of a chic shuttle aircraft that celebrates the beauty and affluence of the past while embracing the advanced technology of the future.”
Due to the highly bespoke nature of the business, Embraer’s customers can choose to adopt the whole package or simply a few select elements of the concept.
Here’s a closer look at the Embraer Lineage 1000E Hollywood Airship.
The Hollywood Airship interior is designed for Embraer’s flagship Lineage 1000E executive jet. The 1000E has room for 13 to 19 passengers, with a range of nearly 5,300 miles. It’s based on the company’s
E190 airliner.
Step inside the Hollywood Airship and you’ll be greeted by a 3D relief that’s sculpted from leather. According to Embraer, the relief is an artistic narrative that chronicles the history of Hollywood.
From the entryway, turn to the right and you’ll get a sneak peek at the entire cabin.
The first thing that will catch your eye is the Cloud Club. It’s an art deco bar complete with...
... Gold-toned bar stools.
Across from the marble-lined bar is a large divan with...
.... An ornately shaped window providing natural light for the Cloud Club.
The entire cabin is actually decked out in backlit crystal sculptures and marble accents.
Next to the Cloud Club is a multimedia area where...
.... Passengers will be able to watch movies and TV shows from the comfort of a large divan.
Business clients can conduct meetings in this spacious lounge while...
... Formal dining for six is available in the VIP Crystal Room near the back of the plane.
So how much does all of this art deco fabulousness cost? A new Embraer Lineage 1000E can be had for US$53 million. But for an additional US$30 million, your Lineage can shine brighter than Hollywood’s biggest stars.

