steady-start-and-finish-marie-mcnaughton-forced-go-slow
https://www.scmp.com/sport/outdoor/trail-running/article/2144045/steady-start-and-finish-marie-mcnaughton-forced-go-slow

Follow us on
Follow us on
0 Share
Topic
Outdoor & Extreme
The Hong Kong runner overcomes injury to enter STY race and then is forced into successful tactic by her own limitations
By Mark Agnew
0 Share
Hongkonger Marie McNaughton finished second in the 92km Shinzuoka to Yamanashi (STY) in Japan despite being plagued by injury.
With a dodgy Achilles, IT band and back, she found that her limitations became her strength.
“I benefited from not pushing anywhere during the race,” she said. “I had to go steady at the start, and steady at the finish. I wasn’t able to do anything stupid like push too hard.”
STY A1 Fujinomiya 22km: Hey Friends in Hong Kong, Marie McNaughton is 4th woman here, 8 min to leader. #UTMF #STY pic.twitter.com/i6xmpLBQSx
She finished second in 12 hours and 21 minutes, behind Yuri Yoshizumi (10:45) and ahead of Honoka Akiyama (13:01).
The STY is the little brother to the 160km Ultra Trail Mt Fuji (UTMF), one of the marquee ultra events in Asia which also ran over the weekend.
McNaughton, originally from New Zealand, had entered the UTMF but with her many injuries, she moved to the shorter race. In 2015, she competed in but did not finish the UTMF and in 2016 she entered the STY but extreme weather stopped the race.
“So part of the motivation to get round was that I just didn’t want to drop out again,” she said. “When I was about halfway and it became clear the injuries would hold out, that’s when I became really motivated.”
A2 #STY Fumoto 50km, Marie McNaughton came in 3rd but left here 2nd. Honoka Akiyama is still having rest. #UTMF pic.twitter.com/HvlrRAUb0a
She slowly moved up the field from fifth. She entered a check point at 50km in third place, and left in second.
'The Needleman' delivers painful remedy for injuries
McNaughton was considering not running at all, but worked hard on her many ailments with Alain Chu, the infamous physiotherapist known as Needleman.
“I thought I wouldn’t be able to do it, but when he said I had a chance I began to think I could,” she said.
Your weekly dose of Outdoor & Extreme direct to your inbox.
By registering to our newsletter you agree to our T&C and Privacy Policy
By registering to our newsletter you agree to our T&C and Privacy Policy
Trending topics
Newsletter Signup
GET EXTREME & ADVENTUROUS NEWS DELIVERED TO YOUR INBOX
STAY CONNECTED
Sport
Lifestyle
Copyright © 2020 South China Morning Post Publishers Ltd. All rights reserved.

