food-sea-farm-table-dining-eco-friendly-superyacht
https://www.scmp.com/print/magazines/style/tech-design/article/2008419/food-sea-farm-table-dining-eco-friendly-superyacht
2016-09-01T13:30:15.000Z
The term "eco-life" is no stranger to many who are conscious about the environment and have modern views. Among all aspects of a green lifestyle, dining is of paramount importance as the right food is the ultimate luxury for our body.
"Nowadays 'eco-life' has become very popular," Max Zhivov says. "People are beginning to pay attention to the food they eat, the clothes they wear, the cars they ride and other aspects of life". However, just eating healthy no longer satisfies the appetite of eco-friendly fans.
For the best gourmet experience, palatable cuisine made from healthy ingredients, a luxurious environment and an enjoyable moment should be on the same plate and not limited by time and location. Many believe the buzzword "farm-to-table" is the leading way to healthy dining, and Zhivov takes it up a notch to sea level. He came up with the ultimate solution, the F Boat, for STYLE.
The 90-metre-long vessel "is a floating restaurant that will not face any problems with deliveries, as most of them are grown on the deck", according to Zhivov. In the middle of the superyacht, there is a 650-square-metre area which serves as a greenhouse for growing fresh organic plants all year round. It features an automated irrigation system which distills sea water.
To enjoy the fruits of hard work, a restaurant is put in place. Passengers can get on board from the stern to reach the second level through the lift while there is also a helipad that welcomes the VIPs. Connected to the farm garden, the restaurant allows guests to go for a walk before a meal, which is made with freshly gathered organic vegetables grown on board and fresh seafood delivered by local fishermen.


Innovation is another essential part of Zhivov's design. Instead of conventional glass windows, the sides of the superyacht are covered by hi-tech synthetic stretch fabric, which can be removed when the weather is good to allow sunlight to pass through to the garden to stimulate plant growth. The vertical stripes in two different shades of the fabric represent two different thicknesses. The thinner layer is covered with holes about 10cm in diameter, put together to form a honeycomb structure which allows wind to pass through but not water, while the thicker layer is wind and waterproof. This ensures good ventilation for a comfortable dining experience and at the same time provides protection for the plants.
As a pioneering product of modern green life, the superyacht features an array of eco-friendly elements. The power-generating solar panels which open on top of the garden when the vessel stops to allow sunlight to reach the plants and close during movement to improve aerodynamic efficiency, provide enough electricity for the garden operation and the vessel's illumination system.
The leftover produced by the restaurant goes into the waste treatment facilities that recycle the organic waste into fertilisers.
From the eco-conscious design to the organic food, there are surely more waiting to be explored in this ultimate eco-friendly superyacht.

