coronavirus-cathay-pacific-flights-chartered
https://www.scmp.com/print/news/hong-kong/health-environment/article/3050962/coronavirus-cathay-pacific-flights-chartered
2020-02-17T07:38:58.000Z
Two Cathay Pacific flights will fly 350 Hongkongers stranded aboard the Diamond Princess cruise liner back to the city on Thursday, it was announced, as authorities sent senior officials to Japan to oversee the evacuation.
But, as the marooned residents looked set to end their ordeals, for some 2,000 Hongkongers locked down in mainland China’s Hubei province – the epicentre of the outbreak – there was on Monday still no sign of any such reprieve.
As officials began preparations for the return on Thursday of the residents, who will still face a 14-day quarantine when they get back, Hong Kong recorded another three confirmed cases of the deadly coronavirus, taking the total to 60, and Beijing’s top man in the city, Luo Huining, visited mainland companies to inspect their stock as panic buying continued to clear supermarket shelves.
Confirming an earlier Post report, Director of Immigration Erick Tsang Kwok-wai and undersecretary for security Sonny Au Chi-kwong led a team of about 30 to Tokyo on Monday evening to finalise arrangements with their Japanese counterparts.
A second team would fly to Japan on Tuesday, Secretary for Security John Lee Ka-chiu said.
“We care for and are concerned about the well-being of Hong Kong residents on the Diamond Princess cruise. We are serious about the operation to evacuate them,” Lee said at Hong Kong International Airport.
“Once they are allowed to leave the ship, they should be transported immediately to [Tokyo’s Haneda Airport] so we can arrange flights for them.”
The ship, which has 3,700 people on board, left Hong Kong on January 25 and visited Vietnam, Taiwan and Okinawa.
It has been quarantined off Yokohama since February 4. As of Monday night, 454 people on board, including 21 Hongkongers, had been infected.
Lee did not name the airline, but sources said it would be Cathay Pacific, on flights CX8542 and CX8548, which will leave Hong Kong at 5.35am and 8.05am, respectively, on Wednesday. The aircraft will arrive in Hong Kong from Tokyo at 6am and 8am on Thursday.
Cathay Pacific later confirmed the arrangement on Monday night, adding that each flight would be staffed by crew members who had volunteered their services.
The cabin crew and the ground handling team “will wear appropriate protective gear and the passengers will be allocated seats in accordance with the advice of the authorities”, the airline said.
“They will be cared for by the medical personnel on board.”
It added that no food would be served on the evacuation flights, to ensure minimal contact between crew and passengers.
Lee said that, once the Japanese authorities confirmed the Hong Kong travellers were not infected, they would be taken to the airport in Tokyo for further checks.
He also said he knew of five Macau residents on the cruise, and that they could contact the Hong Kong government if they wished to board the flights.
All passengers would have to be quarantined in government facilities for 14 days, but Lee said authorities were still making arrangements. Those confirmed to be infected would have to stay in Japan for treatment, he said.
Flight attendants and pilots would be exempt from any quarantine.
Stranded Hongkonger Yardley Wong, 43, said it was “inhumane” that she had to be quarantined for 14 more days, saying she had been kept on the cruise long enough.
“I know the danger of this virus. I won’t leave my house,” she said, asking to stay at home instead.
She and her family had been confined to windowless rooms for days, she added.
But Chinese University respiratory medicine expert Professor David Hui Shu-cheong said the passengers posed a high risk, given that the transmission details of the virus were still unknown.
The 14 people who tested positive were isolated in specialised containment areas aboard two chartered planes that flew to US military bases, the State Department said in a statement.
But for Hongkongers stranded in Hubei province, there was no indication of an imminent return home.
Lawmaker Lo Wai-kwok, chairman of the pro-establishment Business and Professionals Alliance, urged the government to arrange flights as soon as possible.
They could be brought home in groups, with the elderly given priority, Lo said.
The government said earlier it was studying the public health risk of bringing them home, and assessing whether the city had enough places to hold them.
The Macau government, meanwhile, announced on Monday that it would be business as usual in the city’s casinos from Thursday, when a 15-day closure order expires.
Pubs and karaoke bars would remain closed and there would be tighter restrictions at the border, the authorities said.
Separately, Beijing’s top representative in Hong Kong, Luo Huining, visited mainland companies in the city on Monday, including Bank of China, China Merchants Group, China Resources and Sinopec.
According to a liaison office statement, Luo visited warehouses to inspect supplies of daily necessities, such as rice and pork, as Hong Kong continued to be gripped by panic buying, including a run on toilet paper.
“Director Luo … extended his warm wishes and paid tribute to all frontline staff of these companies. He conducted on-the-ground studies of their efforts to curb the coronavirus outbreak, [maintain] market supply, [provide] financial relief and [undertake] risk prevention,” the statement read.
Luo, who replaced Wang Zhimin as head of the liaison office in January, stressed that China-funded businesses must help ensure market stability, especially for daily necessities, and offer financial relief to local businesses, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises.
Related to the shortages, Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor on Monday visited communities to distribute surgical masks that had been privately donated.
She visited elderly people living alone on Tak Tin Estate in Lam Tin and residents in social housing and subdivided apartments in Kowloon City.
Secretary for Home Affairs Lau Kong-wah and Secretary for Labour and Welfare Law Chi-kwong also distributed anti-contagion bags to low-income residents and the elderly in Mong Kok and Tai Kok Tsui.
Additional reporting by Christopher Johnson, Ng Kang-chung, William Zheng, Victor Ting and Danny Mok

