Zimbabwe - BBC News
https://www.bbc.com//news/topics/crr7mlg0rpvt/zimbabwe

 

Zimbabwe’s health minister has warned people against selling unregistered Covid-19 self-test kits.
Obadiah Moyo told the state-owned Herald newspaper that all test kits have to be evaluated by the local authority first, to establish efficacy and to avoid false results.
Private companies, including some pharmacies, have been selling rapid testing kits.
Zimbabwe has recorded nine positive cases of the virus from around 340 tests, with one death. The government says it is only conducting tests among those who display coronavirus-like symptoms.
Zimbabwe began a 21-day lockdown on 30 March, but the government appears to be easing some restrictions. On Friday, it reversed a ban on the sale of alcohol from supermarkets, even though liquor stores and bars remain shut.
President Emmerson Mnangagwa also announced that farmers and traders will be allowed to bring in their fresh produce to markets.
This came after social media videos showing police seizing and destroying vegetables caused an outcry.
Read more:
One of Africa's - and the world's - great natural wonders, the Victoria Falls, has roared back to life, just months after a severe drought in southern Africa caused parts of it to dry up.
Known locally as Mosi-oa-Tunya, the “Smoke that Thunders”, it straddles the border between Zambia and Zimbabwe and is a World Heritage site.
The flow of water over the falls is now well above the seasonal average following heavy rainfall further up the Zambezi River.
But few people will get to enjoy the spectacle because Zambia and Zimbabwe have closed viewing areas as part of a coronavirus lockdown.
A decision by the Supreme Court of Zimbabwe to strip main opposition leader Nelson Chamisa of his title as the leader of the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) has fragmented the party instead of settling a long-running row.
Mr Chamisa, a charismatic preacher and lawyer, thought he had settled the leadership question with his rival Thokozani Khupe after outperforming her in the 2018 general election. The two contested the elections on behalf of separate parties.
Ms Khupe under the name MDC-T (Tsvangirai), and Mr Chamisa as leader of the MDC Alliance, with various splinter groups that founding MDC leader Morgan Tsvangirai had united the previous year to contest national elections before his death.
Mr Chamisa gained about 45% of the vote, narrowly losing to President Emmerson Mnangagwa, while Ms Khupe got less than 1%.
An MDC member went to court to challenge Mr Chamisa's leadership of the party, questioning the process that appointed him as leader, after the death of its founding leader, Morgan Tsvangirai.
Ms Khupe had argued that as an elected deputy to Tsvangirai, the party rules meant she should have taken over as interim leader.
Mr Chamisa has, however, claimed he was the preferred successor to Tsvangirai.
The Supreme Court declared Ms Khupe as the interim leader and ordered her to organise the MDC's congress and internal elections.
In the meantime she was given the right to the party's trademark and assets.
Some analysts believe this includes the right to claim parliamentary seats won by the MDC Alliance in the last election as well as public finances due for the seats.
MDC Alliance Vice-President Tendai Biti, a supporter of Mr Chamisa, said the court ruling had not changed anything and that the "judgement was academic".
Mr Chamisa has not commented publicly - his supporters however believe he can continue to lead the party.
“The MDC- A[lliance] was not before the court and cannot be bound by a judgement to which it is not a party," tweeted the party’s third vice-president Welshman Ncube.
The MDC has been blighted by factional fights that have weakened it. It has split and reunited several times since its formation in 1999.
Zimbabwe’s main opposition leader has lost a court appeal to remain president of the biggest opposition party, the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC).
Nelson Chamisa's appointment as MDC leader in 2018 followed the death of Morgan Tsvangirai, a former union leader who had founded the MDC in 1999.
The Supreme Court ruled that that appointment was illegal as Mr Chamisa had not been elected by a congress as per the party rules.
Despite the internal leadership wrangles, Mr Chamisa won close to 45% of the national presidential vote, losing narrowly to President Emmerson Mnangagwa in 2018 amidst claims of electoral fraud.
The MDC must now hold a congress within the next three months.
Thokozani Khupe, the former vice-president and Mr Chamisa’s main challenger, will lead the party till then.
Both claim to be the legitimate leaders of the party. Mr Chamisa has more supporters and a control of the party’s assets.
Analysts say his options now will be to appeal the ruling or form another party.
The MDC has split many times since its formation more than 20 years ago - in nasty power struggles that have weakened its performance at elections.
Zimbabwe's police force including riot police were out in full force patrolling the streets and stopping vehicles and people on the streets to check whether they had authority to be out in public.
Zimbabweans have largely stayed home. The streets are quiet. Market stalls in Mbare - the heart of the informal sector - have stood empty.
One man who mostly washes cars for a living told me he is already struggling to feed his family. The government should have allowed vendors to operate but given everyone protective masks and gloves to wear, he told me.
Others told me they wanted to stay home, fearful of how the coronavirus has affected other countries.
Zimbabwe's government has announced it will divert budgets mainly towards healthcare. Doctors and nurses continue to insist they will only work when PPE’s are provided.
Zimbabwe is facing an economic crisis, and high unemployment that has sparked concerns about how millions of people forced to stay home will survive for coming weeks.
Drought has left about half of the country’s population hungry and in need of food aid.
One million households are to receive cash handouts as announced in the government's Covid-19 relief package. Many more remain in desperate need of help, at least until this lockdown ends.
Hundreds of healthcare professionals in Zimbabwe are refusing to work because they say they don't have the equipment needed to protect themselves against catching coronavirus.
The Secretary General of the Zimbabwe Hospital Doctors Association Dr Emmanuel Masosota told BBC Newsday that they are asking for the adequate equipment outlined in the World Health Organization's guidelines.
Personal protective equipment can include eye protection, a gown and gloves.
Dr Masosota added that the number of Italian doctors who have died after getting coronavirus was "worrisome".
Listen to his full interview on BBC Newsday:

Zimbabwe went into full coronavirus lockdown for three weeks on Monday, coming 10 days after confirming its first case.
Police on Sunday mounted roadblocks and the government said the military will step in, if necessary, to enforce the stay-at-home order.
Meanwhile, hundreds of healthcare professionals are already refusing to work because they say they don't have the protective equipment.
Zimbabweans may face up to one year imprisonment for violating the order and up to 20 years for false reports about the lockdown.
So far the country has recorded seven cases of the virus, including one death.
Over the weekend, there were long queues outside banks and supermarkets as Zimbabweans prepared for the lockdown. Crowds gathered at bus stations, preparing to head back to their rural homes.
Almost all businesses and markets must shut down for the next 21 days.
Movement to buy food and medicines is limited to within a five kilometre radius of homes.
With seven recorded cases, the outbreak is not a crisis here yet. The tough action, which includes a ban on the sale of alcohol, was taken amid fears that if the coronavirus spreads the pandemic could devastate a broken health system.
There is an enormous sense of uncertainty about the weeks ahead. Most Zimbabweans are informal traders, surviving off daily earnings.
Without savings and no way to earn an income they face tough times ahead.
Read:
Zimbabwe's President Emmerson Mnangagwa has announced that the country will go into lockdown from Monday in an effort to control the spread of coronavirus.
So far, the country has recorded five cases and one death, 30-year-old journalist Zororo Makamba. The low number of cases though "need not induce complacency", Mr Mnangagwa said in an address to the nation.
For three weeks from Monday, Zimbabweans will be required to stay at home, except to buy food and access vital health services.
Security forces will be used to ensure that the lockdown is enforced.
The president's announcement came on the day that neighbouring South Africa began its own 21-day lockdown.
There are 1,170 cases of coronavirus in South Africa and two people have died from Covid-19, the disease caused by the virus.
You can see Mr Mnangagwa's president's speech here:
Earlier, the central bank said people could use US dollars again, reversing last year's ban on foreign currencies - a move aimed at supporting the already struggling economy against the effects of coronavirus.
Read more:


