Coronavirus: Wages, sick pay and time off explained - BBC News
https://www.bbc.com//news/business-51628524
31 March 2020
Struggling companies and self-employed workers have been offered financial help by the government, to help keep their businesses afloat and staff paid during the coronavirus outbreak. 

But who will receive help and what happens when workers fall ill?
If you work in the private sector, and pay tax through the pay-as-you-earn (PAYE) system, your employer can put you on furlough - essentially, lay you off temporarily - by applying for a government grant to pay 80% of your gross salary up to a limit of £2,500 per month.
Full- and part-time employees are eligible, as are those on agency, flexible or zero-hour contracts.
The typical full-time worker is paid £585 a week, about £2,340 a month, using a median average - the middle point of all workers.
It is hoped the grants, available through Revenue & Customs (HMRC) by the end of April, will stop big redundancy announcements.
The money will be backdated to March and the scheme will last at least three months.
If you are self-employed and have had a loss of income, you can receive a taxable grant of 80% of your average monthly profits over the past three years - up to a cap of £2,500 per month.
Initially, this will be available for three months in one lump-sum payment, payable from June.
You can access the Coronavirus Self-employment Income Support Scheme as long as you traded in the past financial year, are still trading now and plan to continue doing so.
Most of your income needs to come from self-employment and your average trading profit needs to have been less than £50,000 a year.
If you became self-employed since April 2019, you will not receive any help under this scheme. This is because you haven't yet have filed a tax return, which is needed to help calculate financial support.
HMRC will contact those who are eligible.
You will have to try to claim benefits - such as universal credit and/or contribution-based employment and support allowance (ESA).
In his recent Budget, Chancellor Rishi Sunak said claimants could apply for ESA straight away, rather than waiting a week. He also temporarily removed the minimum income floor (MIF) criteria for self-employed people - which looked at how much people could expect to earn in a month to calculate levels of universal credit.
Not having the floor self-employed people not covered by the Coronavirus Self-employment Income Support Scheme can now access universal credit in full, to receive a payment equivalent to statutory sick pay (SSP).
The requirement to attend a job centre to apply for universal credit is also being relaxed - you will be able to apply on the phone or online.
Levels of benefit have also been increased temporarily.
You should continue to work and have your wages paid as normal, even if you are home-working or have been told to work at another location temporarily.
If you can work from home, you should do so. Working hours can still be clearly defined.
Employers still have a duty of care and are responsible for any equipment they give you. The Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service (Acas) has set out guidance.
If you are an employee, your employer must give you time off in an emergency. But you might not get paid - it depends on the terms of your work contract.
However, many bosses during this period are allowing parents to work flexibly, to try to manage both work and childcare.
If you are an employee, any sick pay you may receive will depend on where you work.
Some workers' contracts offer full pay to those off ill - albeit for a limited time.
If that time runs out, or if you don't get paid sick leave in the first place, you should receive statutory sick pay (SSP).
The money - set at £94.25 a week - is paid by employers for up to 28 weeks. So if you are self-employed, you will not be eligible - but if you are a casual or agency worker, you will be.
To receive SSP you need to be earning at least £118 a week. The Office for National Statistics estimates there are 1,766,000 adult jobs in the UK that pay less than that amount - although some people will earn money from several jobs over the course of a week.
SSP can now be claimed from a person's first day away from work, rather than the fourth day as before.
Anyone claiming should be able to get a sick note from the NHS's 111 service rather than their GP.
Update: This piece was first published on 6 March and has been updated to reflect changes announced since.

