Coronavirus: What are social distancing and self-isolation? - BBC News
https://www.bbc.com//news/uk-51506729
6 April 2020
Members of the public should stay at home to help stop the spread of coronavirus, the government says. 

Restrictions put in place to combat the disease say people should go out as little as possible and only leave if they have a "reasonable excuse". This includes:
If you have to go outside you should stay more than 2m (6ft) apart from anyone other than members of your own household. This is what's known as social distancing.
No mention is given to how long you can exercise for. But Cabinet Office minister Michael Gove has said: "I would have thought for most people a walk of up to an hour, a run of 30 minutes or a cycle ride of between that, depending on their level of fitness, is appropriate."
After people were seen sunbathing during warm weather, Health Secretary Matt Hancock said it was against social distancing rules. Labour's new deputy leader Angela Rayner said it was "all right for people who have got big houses and huge back gardens" to tell people to stop sunbathing.
Police have wide-ranging powers to help fight coronavirus by enforcing social distancing measures.
Social distancing is important because coronavirus spreads when an infected person coughs small droplets - packed with the virus - into the air.
These can be breathed in, or can cause an infection if you touch a surface they have landed on, and then touch your face with unwashed hands.
If you show symptoms of coronavirus - such as a dry cough and high temperature - you must take extra precautions.
You should stay at home and if possible, not leave it for any reason, other than to exercise once a day (staying at least 2m away from others).
This is known as self-isolation.
If possible, you should not go out even to buy food or other essentials. If you are unable to get supplies delivered, you should do what you can to limit social contact when you do leave the house.
Everyone who shows coronavirus symptoms - a fever of above 37.8C, a persistent cough or breathing problems - and everyone who lives in the same house or flat as someone with symptoms.
The person with the symptoms should stay in a well-ventilated room with a window that can be opened, and keep away from other people in the home.
People are being advised not to ring NHS 111 or their GP to report their symptoms unless they are worried.
About 1.5 million people with very serious health conditions are being contacted by the NHS and urged not go out at all for at least 12 weeks.
This is what's known as shielding.
The most vulnerable group includes:
The government says it will work with local authorities, supermarkets and the armed forces to ensure they get supplies of essential food and medicines.
Others in the same household, and carers, can go out as long they observe proper social distancing.

