Ebola virus - BBC News
https://www.bbc.com//news/topics/cjnwl8q4qj1t/ebola-virus

 

The United Nations children’s agency (Unicef) says the Democratic Republic of Congo’s healthcare system needs urgent support or children's futures will be destroyed.
The vast, conflict-ridden country is struggling to cope with five deadly diseases – malaria, measles, cholera, coronavirus and ebola.
Last year, 16.5 million malaria cases were reported in DR Congo. It suffered the world’s worst measles epidemic, which killed thousands of children under five.
Cholera is endemic – there were more than 30,000 cases last year.
DR Congo is also trying to contain an outbreak of Ebola disease in the country's east, where dozens of militias operate and one million people have been displaced.
And now there’s Covid-19. Although the number of cases is relatively low, there are fears of a catastrophe if it takes off.
Unicef has called on the government of this mineral-rich country to allocate more resources to the failing health system.
If not, it says, the lives of many Congolese children will be destroyed by preventable diseases.
Four African countries - the Democratic Republic of Congo, Burundi, Ghana and Zambia - have licensed and can now distribute an Ebola vaccine, which the World Heath Organization (WHO) has hailed as a "milestone".
Preliminary study results indicate the Ervebo vaccine, manufactured by Merck, has a 97.5% efficacy rate. Data also suggests that vaccinating people who are already infected reduces their chances of dying.
DR Congo is currently battling an Ebola outbreak, which has killed 2,249 people since August 2018.
"The approval of the Ebola vaccine by these countries is another milestone in the fight against this unforgiving disease," said WHO Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus.
"Africa has rallied to cement hard-fought progress to keep its people safe from Ebola," he added.
The World Health Organization (WHO) has extended by three months the designation of the Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo as a global health emergency.
WHO chief Tedros Ghebreyesus said the potential remained for a much larger epidemic as long as there was a single case of the disease in an area as insecure as eastern DR Congo.
The outbreak was declared a global health emergency in July 2019 after a patient died in the provincial capital Goma - the first case in a major city.
More than 2,300 people have died since the outbreak began in 2018.
Read more:
A simulation exercise in which officials pretended a woman with Ebola had entered Lesotho has caused panic in southern Africa.
The incorrect story that was reported in the southern African press said that a woman in South Africa had come into contact with another woman from the Democratic Republic of Congo and then crossed the border from South Africa into Lesotho.
Lesotho's health ministry incorrectly told the press that a woman had been rushed to hospital after displaying symptoms of the virus and had been tested positive for Ebola.
But the National Institute for Communicable Diseases in South Africa clarified that it was actually just an exercise and no-one had tested positive for Ebola:
It went on to say that the scenario in the exercise was unlikely to happen:
Multiple news sites said Lesotho's Health Minister Nkaku Kabi had incorrectly confirmed the case. He is expected to talk later on Thursday at a press conference.
Read more: What you need to know about Ebola

