Democratic Republic of Congo - BBC News
https://www.bbc.com//news/topics/cvenzmgylgwt/democratic-republic-of-congo

 

One suburb of the Democratic Republic of Congo’s capital, Kinshasa, will be put into a two-week lockdown starting from Monday.
The area is Gombe and is deemed to be country’s coronavirus epicentre and is where many expatriates in the city live.
Only health workers will be allowed to move. Essential state-run firms and some private businesses will also be allowed to operate during the lockdown.
Kinshasa's Governor Gentini Ngobila made the announcement on Thursday evening.
Last week, he reversed his decision to put Kinshasa under a complete lockdown fearing a rise in insecurity and a hike in the prices of basic commodities.
Many residents in the capital think that a lockdown on only one out of 24 municipalities is insufficient to curb the spread of the virus.
The country has reported 134 coronavirus cases to date, including 13 deaths.
More about coronavirus:
The United Nations children’s agency (Unicef) says the Democratic Republic of Congo’s healthcare system needs urgent support or children's futures will be destroyed.
The vast, conflict-ridden country is struggling to cope with five deadly diseases – malaria, measles, cholera, coronavirus and ebola.
Last year, 16.5 million malaria cases were reported in DR Congo. It suffered the world’s worst measles epidemic, which killed thousands of children under five.
Cholera is endemic – there were more than 30,000 cases last year.
DR Congo is also trying to contain an outbreak of Ebola disease in the country's east, where dozens of militias operate and one million people have been displaced.
And now there’s Covid-19. Although the number of cases is relatively low, there are fears of a catastrophe if it takes off.
Unicef has called on the government of this mineral-rich country to allocate more resources to the failing health system.
If not, it says, the lives of many Congolese children will be destroyed by preventable diseases.
Panic over the global coronavirus pandemic has led to discrimination against foreigners in East Africa.
From Ethiopia, to Kenya and the Democratic Republic of Congo, Westerners have been verbally and physically abused over fears that they may be infected with Covid-19, the respiratory illness caused by the virus.
This is because many of the first cases of the virus reported in the region, were brought in by travellers from Europe and the US.
In Iten town in western Kenya, known worldwide for producing Olympic and World champions in athletics, foreign athletes training there have in recent weeks been verbally and physically attacked by locals who accused them of being infected with coronavirus.
Spanish conditioning coach Totti Corbalan was the first to go public after he was pelted with stones and called “corona” during a run in the town.
At least four other athletes have told the BBC they have experienced similar treatment.
Last month, Ethiopian Prime Minister and Nobel peace prize winner Abiy Ahmed appealed to Ethioipians not to target foreigners after the US embassy issued an alert to its citizens living there because some Westerners had been stoned, chased and spat at.
In DR Congo, an aid worker, who did not want to be identified, told the BBC that foreigners working with humanitarian agencies had been forced to relook at their security arrangements after several aid agency convoys were pelted with stones. Some had also been verbally abused and called "coronavirus" in the streets.
Much of the fear spurring on discrimination has been spread on social media and governments across the region have cracked down on fake news about the virus.
More about coronavirus and fake news:
There's confusion here in Kinshasa, the capital of the Democratic Republic of Congo, over when and how one of Africa's biggest cities is to go into lockdown.
A three-week lockdown was due to start last Saturday, but officials postponed it the night before, blaming last-minute price hikes by shops and vendors for jeopardising security.
Local markets and supermarkets are still full people queueing for food and basic necessities, fearing the lockdown measure may be enforced at any time.
"I don’t know if I should just stay at home or go out," one confused resident told the BBC.
Apart from the planned lockdown in the capital, DR Congo has taken other measures to curb the spread of virus.
Borders have been shut, flights are suspended from affected cities to the rest of the country, and there's a ban on gatherings of more than 20 people.
So far, 98 people are known to have contracted coronavirus in DR Congo, eight of whom have since died.
Most cases are in Kinshasa, but others have been recorded in the eastern provinces of North Kivu and South Kivu, as well as Ituri.
Thousands of people who have come into contact with confirmed cases have been identified.
Teams are tracking down other contacts they want to place under quarantine as a precaution.
Koffi Olomidé is the latest musician to release a song warning people to stay safe as the coronavirus pandemic takes hold.
His offering is called Coronavirus Assassin, meaning "Killer Coronavirus". Singing in Lingala and French, he urges listeners to stay indoors.
"The enemy is faceless," he adds, likening the pandemic to a war:
It comes days after Ugandan musician and MP Bobi Wine released Corona Virus Alert, which urged people to follow hygiene advice and practise social distancing.
Uganda and DR Congo have 33 and 81 confirmed coronavirus cases respectively.
Congolese star Koffi Olomidé announced earlier this month that he was returning to Kenya to perform, four years after the country deported him for assault. But with travel restrictions in place in Kenya it seems unlikely this can now go ahead.
The musician has had many run-ins with the law. Last year, a French court found him guilty of statutory rape.
African nations are taking tough action to restrict the spread of coronavirus and are increasingly taking steps to protect their economies too.
In the latest developments:
The Democratic Republic of Congo's authorities have announced a shutdown of the capital city, Kinshasa, from Saturday to stop the spread of coronavirus
Governor Gentiny Ngobila said all residents, apart from essential workers such as medical staff, would have to stay at home for four days, starting on Saturday. They would then be allowed to stock up on food in the following two days. The same pattern is scheduled to be repeated for the next three weeks.
The governor urged the people of Kinshasa not to panic or be misled by disinformation.
Earlier this week, President Félix Tshisekedi ordered a ban on all travel to and from the capital.
The country has confirmed 54 cases so far and quarantined nearly 2,000 people who have been in contact with Covid-19 patients.
A representative of the consumer rights association has warned against attempts by some businesses to increase prices during the shutdown
Kinshasa is the only city to have recorded coronavirus cases in the country.
The third person to die of Covid-19 complications in the Democratic Republic of Congo is a respected human rights lawyer and an aide of President Félix Tshisekedi.
Jean-Joseph Mukendi wa Mulumba was the acting head of President Tshisekedi’s legal advisory council.
He is likely to have contracted the respiratory illness during his trip to France for a medical check-up.
Mr Mulumba has been a key figure in DR Congo opposition politics and in human rights circles.
He was a close aide of the late veteran opposition leader Etienne Tshisekedi, the father of the current president.
As a lawyer he represented opposition politician Moïse Katumbi and others who opposed former President Joseph Kabila's attempt to extend his term in office.
Mr Tshisekedi took over from Mr Kabila in January last year, the first peaceful transfer of power in the country in nearly 60 years.
Many in DR Congo have described Mr Mukendi wa Mulumba's death as a huge loss.
Rights activist Anneke Van Woudenberg wrote on Twitter: "He was one of the greats. His country, and the human rights movement, will miss him."

DR Congo has confirmed 48 cases of Covid-19, the respiratory illness caused by coronavirus.
On Tuesday, President Tshisekedi announced the closure of the country's borders and isolated the capital, Kinshasa, where most of the cases have been reported, from the rest of the country.
More about coronavirus:
The Democratic Republic of Congo has declared a state of emergency and the isolation of its capital, Kinshasa, in its fight against coronavirus.
President Félix Tshisekedi announced the measures late on Tuesday in a nationwide televised address.
Mr Tshisekedi said that along with the closure of the country's borders, a ban on travel into and out of the capital to the provinces - including flights, buses and river transport - would be imposed with immediate effect.
The central African country had announced measures last week restricting the movements of its citizens.
So far the DR Congo has reported 45 cases and three deaths from coronavirus.
The country's second largest city, Lubumbashi, started a 48-hour lockdown on Monday after two people tested positive for the virus.
The two people arrived in Lubumbashi on a Congo Airways flight from the capital Kinshasa on Sunday afternoon, according to the province’s governor Jacques Kyabula. A total of 77 people were on that flight.
More on Africa and the virus:


