https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/19/well/live/coronavirus-blood-donation.html
How to Donate Blood as Coronavirus Threatens the U.S. Supply - The New York Times
META-KEYWORDS NOT FOUND
143
AdvertisementSupported byWhat you need to know about donating in a time of crisis.By Nancy WartikThe nation’s blood supply faces a dire shortage.“It’s an unprecedented situation,” said Dr. Pampee Young, chief medical officer of biomedical services at the American Red Cross. “We are already actively triaging units, determining which hospitals can and can’t get blood.”While donor blood is not being used to treat coronavirus patients, transfusions are still needed for cases such as trauma, organ transplants or complications of childbirth.“The worst-case scenario could be a bleeding young patient who was in a car accident, and there’s no blood,” said Dr. Young. “We’re not quite there yet, but that is the ultimate fear.”The Red Cross normally supplies about 40 percent of the nation’s blood. But as of March 18, more than 4,500 of its blood drives had been canceled, resulting in nearly 150,000 fewer donations. Typically, the Red Cross needs to receive 13,000 blood donations daily, so it has already lost around 11 days of stock. Red blood cells are viable for 42 days, platelets for only five, so it’s essential to keep new donations coming in.Blood banks around the country are pleading for donors to step up.Eduardo Nunes, vice president for quality, standards and accreditation at the AABB, formerly the American Association of Blood Banks, cited a recent Twitter message from a blood bank staffer and donor, who said she was in and out from donating in a total of 29 minutes.“Given the supply and inventory levels, that person almost certainly saved a life,” Mr. Nunes said. “There are very few situations where, with less than an hour, you can do that.”[LIVE UPDATES Read our live coverage of the coronavirus pandemic here.]The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund has begun a special Covid-19 relief campaign. All proceeds will go to nonprofits that provide assistance to those facing economic hardship. Make a tax-deductible donation via GoFundMe.Check the American Association of Blood Banks locator, visit the Red Cross website, or call 1-800-RED-CROSS. You can also find information through the America’s Blood Centers website.Almost any healthy person can, although requirements may vary by state. (On April 2, the F.D.A. loosened some restrictions, among other things making it easier for gay and bisexual men to donate blood.)Talk to your local center about eligibility guidelines. In these new circumstances, you’ll be asked where you’ve recently traveled and what your personal coronavirus exposure has been. In most states you have to be 17 and above; with parental consent, some states allow donors to be 16. You must weigh at least 110 pounds.There are no standing upper age limits. Dr. Claudia Cohn, director of the Blood Bank Laboratory at the University of Minnesota and chief medical officer of AABB, said that normally, older Americans are the country’s best donors.“They give a disproportionate amount of blood,” Dr. Cohn said. “Even though we think their risk is very low, we want to protect them if they want to be careful about going out.”That means blood centers are asking younger people to step up and donate more often than they usually do.“This is not a blood-borne disease, that is clear,” Dr. Cohn said. “Blood itself is safe.”Coronaviruses in general don’t seem to be blood transmissible, as evidence from earlier outbreaks of SARS and MERS has shown.“We completely understand people are hesitant,” said Dr. Young of the Red Cross. “We want to reassure the public that we’re handling this with an abundance of caution.”Many blood centers have substantially ramped up ordinary precautions, with staff members conducting extra temperature checks, on both themselves and donors. It’s recommended that gloves be changed more often. Efforts are being made to clean equipment more frequently and space donors at least six feet apart. Many centers have extended hours.“With centers taking extra measures to eliminate risk, it’s safer than going to the store,” Dr. Cohn said.Yes.“The recommendations are to shelter in place except for essential things,” said Dr. Young. “Public health officials recognize that blood donation is essential and they’ve made an exception for it.”Need may be greater on the country’s East and West coasts, where there is more population density and a high number of confirmed cases.In normal times, some blood is shipped nationally but most donations tend to remain local, said Dr. Joe Chaffin, the chief medical officer of LifeStream Blood Bank, in San Bernardino, Calif. His center, which supplies more than 80 hospitals in Southern California, is looking at a potential loss of 5,500 blood units.“What we’re seeing,” Dr. Chaffin said, “is that our normal ability to replenish has evaporated. We’re nearly completely reliant on local donors.”No. A rumor to this effect recently circulated on the internet. It is false.Updated April 4, 2020The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing.If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others.If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested.It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face.No. The first testing in humans of an experimental vaccine began in mid-March. Such rapid development of a potential vaccine is unprecedented, but even if it is proved safe and effective, it probably will not be available for 12 to18 months.Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard.If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently.Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home.Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea.That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years.Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.”Advertisement