http://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-advice.html
Coronavirus and Your Money: The Answers to Your Questions - The New York Times
META-KEYWORDS NOT FOUND
4
Advice on stocks, bonds and cash; timing the market; selling a house; whom to trust — and more.Credit...Illustration by Guillem Casasus; Photo: Getty ImagesSupported byBy Tara Siegel Bernard, Ann Carrns, Jeff Sommer and Ron LieberThe coronavirus is officially a pandemic. The bull market is officially over. None of us knows what comes next.It’s hard to make rational financial decisions when there’s so much uncertainty. We asked readers of the Your Money newsletter what most concerns them right now. Dozens sent questions, which we condensed and answered here:Harold Evensky, a longtime financial planner in Texas, had a blunt answer: “Going to cash could mean you will end up eating cat food five years from now.” Even in these times, most retirees still need a balanced portfolio of stock and bonds so their nest egg will keep up with inflation, and maybe even grow.But holding enough cash for basic needs is important, too. Mr. Evensky recommends thinking in terms of two cash buckets: The first can hold a year’s worth of living expenses. The second is for the big payments you’ll need over the next five years, like helping with a grandchild’s college tuition.With the money in those buckets already put aside, you may be able to ride out a shaky market more peacefully, using the returns from your investment portfolio to replenish the buckets as you use the cash you really need.We don’t know when the market will hit bottom, so hedge your bets: Invest a portion of your money over time. “Our brains do not respond well to panic and we will not be able to make rational decisions when everyone else is freaking out,” said Michael Batnick, director of research at Ritholtz Wealth Management. “You need to have a plan.”Let’s say you have an extra $5,000 you want to put to work. Set up an automatic investing schedule to take emotion out of the process — maybe you invest $500 every other Wednesday, for example. And if the market sinks further, try not to fret. Most of us are investing for the long term anyway.It depends. You might be able to shorten your loan term to 15 years from 30 and pay off your loan quicker. Your monthly payments would likely rise, but you would have more budget flexibility in retirement or even sooner.Or you could stick with a 30-year mortgage and lock in a lower rate. This would reduce your monthly payment, though you could end up paying more interest over time.Getting your hands on more cash might be your goal. You might keep your payment the same, start the 30-year clock over and walk away with some money for whatever is coming next. But lenders are overwhelmed, so prepare to devote many hours to loan shopping and closing.Maybe. If it’s pension-like income you’re craving, then something called a single-premium immediate annuity may help. You pay an insurance company a pile of cash, and in return, they send you a guaranteed monthly paycheck for the rest of your life (or some other period). Experts suggest figuring out what your basic fixed costs are — housing, food, taxes — and then buying enough of an income stream to cover the portion of expenses that Social Security does not.But the income received is tied to long-term interest rates, which have fallen to new lows. As a result, so-called payout rates have also fallen sharply. One workaround is to spread your purchase out — for example, by using a portion of your money to buy one annuity annually over five years.Another negative: Once you give that cash to the insurance company, you can’t access it. (You can buy a death benefit for your heirs, but that will reduce your income stream.)The supply of houses in most markets is tight and mortgage rates are low, which bodes well for sellers. That could shift, though, as the coronavirus spreads.Redfin, a brokerage, said home-buying demand has dropped in Seattle, which has been hard hit by COVID-19, but it hasn’t seen a falloff yet in the rest of the country. The National Association of Realtors put out a “flash survey” of its members March 9; 11 percent reported lower home buyer traffic and 7 percent reported lower home seller traffic.But the virus’s impact is changing so rapidly that we simply don’t know what’s coming next.First, a wag of the finger. Cash needed for a down payment or other near-term expenses, like college tuition, should not be in risky securities like stocks. Generally, investments should be used for long-term goals like retirement, because you have time to ride out market dips. Money needed in less than 10 years should be somewhere safer. “It should not have been there in the first place,” said Elissa Buie, a financial planner in San Francisco.But since it’s too late for that, she said — and assuming there’s no other source for the cash — it likely makes most sense to draw from the bonds. Stocks have obviously plummeted in recent weeks, so you can give them some time to recover. Pull from bonds. Their prices, which move in the opposite direction of interest rates, have lately been rising.Look at things dispassionately: Bonds are relatively expensive now, while stocks are cheaper than they were a few weeks ago. This is not an optimal time to buy bonds and sell stock.But if you want to retire soon on the money already in your portfolio, it might be reasonable to safeguard more of it, or even consider adding a cash buffer (see the first question). High quality bonds can be a haven.If you truly need the money to live, do whatever you have to do. That said, if your employer matches your contributions at some level, try to get that free money.You’ll be better off down the road if you keep salting away as much as you are permitted in that tax-sheltered account, assuming it is invested in a diversified way. So unless you face a real emergency, try not to stop saving entirely.But if the market plunge has taught you that your risk tolerance isn’t as high as you once thought it was, dialing back your stock allocation may help you ride out storms like these.Be especially careful during periods of market turbulence. Many professionals who call themselves financial advisers are glorified salespeople, peddling stuff you don’t need.Start by asking this question: “Will you act as a fiduciary?” That means the adviser must put your interests ahead of his or her own. The pros most likely to serve as fiduciaries are certified financial planners, who are also registered advisers.You want someone who charges an hourly rate or another type of flat fee. Avoid advisers who only earn money when they sell you something. Many pros who work that way can be found here: XY Planning Network; Garrett Planning Network; The National Association of Personal Financial Advisors.Money-market mutual funds were always widely assumed to be safe places to store cash. But during the financial crisis, one fund told investors its shares were no longer worth $1, but a few pennies less. Investors panicked, and the government stepped in to stop a run on the funds.Bank and money-market experts said they believed that isn’t likely to happen again. Want an explicit guarantee? Stick with a traditional bank account (or a money market deposit account, which is different from a money-market fund) that is backed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which means your money is insured by the federal government, up to certain limits.Have more questions? Subscribe to the Your Money newsletter.Updated April 4, 2020The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing.If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others.If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested.It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face.No. The first testing in humans of an experimental vaccine began in mid-March. Such rapid development of a potential vaccine is unprecedented, but even if it is proved safe and effective, it probably will not be available for 12 to18 months.Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard.If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently.Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home.Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea.That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years.Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.”Advertisement