https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/19/upshot/coronavirus-paid-leave-guide.html
Coronavirus Paid Leave: Who Qualifies Under the New Law - The New York Times
META-KEYWORDS NOT FOUND
119
AdvertisementSupported byIt is the first time the U.S. has broad federally mandated paid leave. But many are excluded from the emergency measure.By Claire Cain MillerThe coronavirus emergency relief package gives many American workers paid leave if they need to take time off because of the virus.It is the first time the United States has had widespread federally mandated paid leave, and includes people who don’t typically get such benefits, like part-time and gig economy workers. But the measure excludes at least half of private-sector workers, including those at the country’s largest employers, and gives small employers significant leeway to deny leave.It gives qualified workers two weeks of paid sick leave if they are ill, quarantined or seeking diagnosis or preventive care for coronavirus, or if they are caring for sick family members. It gives 12 weeks of paid leave to people caring for children whose schools are closed or whose child care provider is unavailable because of the coronavirus.For paid sick leave, most workers at small and midsize companies and nonprofits qualify, as do most government employees, as long as they’ve been employed at least 30 days. For paid child care leave, there are more exclusions.Those at companies with more than 500 people — 48 percent of American workers — are excluded from both types of paid leave. Workers at places with fewer than 50 employees — 27 percent of workers — are included, but employers can exempt themselves from providing the 12 weeks of child care leave (but not the two weeks of sick leave). The Labor Department in April gave the smallest businesses the ability to deny workers leave if it would put them out of business, if it would pose “a substantial risk” to the company, or if there weren’t “able, willing and qualified” workers to fill in for those on leave. Employers can also decline to give leave to workers on the front lines of the crisis: health care providers and emergency responders.Yes. Part-time workers will be paid the amount they typically earn in a two-week period. People who are self-employed — including gig economy workers like Uber drivers and Instacart shoppers — can also receive paid leave, assuming they pay taxes. They should calculate their average daily self-employment income for the year, then claim the amount they take as a tax credit (they can reduce their estimated quarterly tax payments in the meantime).If you are sick or seeking care for yourself, you earn the full amount you are usually paid or the minimum wage, whichever is higher, up to a maximum of $511 a day. If you are caring for a sick family member or a child whose school or day care is closed, you earn two-thirds of your usual pay, up to a daily limit of $200.The Labor Department issued guidelines on April 1 to assist employers in calculating how much paid leave their employees should get. If you qualify, you should be able to simply notify your employer, take the leave and get paid the amount specified by the law.They will be reimbursed for the full amount within three months, in the form of a payroll tax credit. (The Trump administration has said it will advance the money earlier for employers that can’t wait that long.) The reimbursement will also cover the employer’s contribution to health insurance premiums during the leave. It’s fully refundable, which means that if the amount that employers pay workers who take leave is larger than what they owe in taxes, the government will send them a check for the remainder. (That goes for self-employed and gig economy workers, too.)You can take any sick leave your company already offers. Eighty-nine percent of employees at these companies have paid sick leave, but rarely as long as two weeks, and low-wage workers are least likely to have it. (Some big companies, like Walmart and Target, have added paid sick leave for coronavirus.) Under a 1993 law, you’re eligible for 12 weeks of unpaid family and medical leave, as long as your company has at least 50 employees; you’ve worked there for a year; and you meet other qualifications.Congressional Republicans and the Trump administration said excluding large companies was a prerequisite to passing the bill, according to people briefed on the discussions. They also asked for other limits on who could receive leave. For example, the original bill passed by the House would have given workers 12 weeks of paid leave to care for themselves or sick family members, instead of two. Paid leave was the most contentious part of the bill, congressional aides said.No. It’s meant as a response to coronavirus, and expires Dec. 31.Yes. This package included other types of aid, including unemployment benefits, free coronavirus testing and food and medical aid. Another $2 trillion package included direct payments to individuals, expanded unemployment payments, a suspension of student loan payments and other benefits. Lawmakers are introducing other legislation, including a Democratic plan for more paid leave. The New York Times is running a hub for personal finance help during this crisis, with information about collecting unemployment, paying rent, paying bills and more.Updated April 4, 2020The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing.If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others.If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested.It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face.No. The first testing in humans of an experimental vaccine began in mid-March. Such rapid development of a potential vaccine is unprecedented, but even if it is proved safe and effective, it probably will not be available for 12 to18 months.Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard.If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently.Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home.Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea.That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years.Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.”Advertisement