https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/12/nyregion/nyc-coronavirus-help-volunteer.html
Coronavirus in New York: How to Help - The New York Times
META-KEYWORDS NOT FOUND
147
AdvertisementSupported byWhat to do for others during a crisis, from checking on neighbors to donating blood.By Azi Paybarah[Read our latest coverage of the coronavirus outbreak in the New York area.]If there is one thing New Yorkers believe about themselves, it’s that no one pulls together quite as well during a crisis.Vigorous hand-washing, staying home, bumping elbows instead of hugging — we got that. But with more than 200 confirmed cases of coronavirus in New York and more than 1,110 nationwide, some people are asking if they can do more to help.“It’s been so internally focused,” Chris Principe, 40, said of the advice he has heard from public officials. Mr. Principe, who lives in Brooklyn and is a video director at the publishing company Condé Nast, said he assumed there would be ways for people to assist others.That has been a common question, said Kathryn S. Wylde, president and chief executive of the Partnership for New York City, an association of major businesses in New York. But large-scale efforts have been hampered in part by safety concerns. The number of cases has increased, even as the capacity to test for the virus has remained limited, prompting concerns about accidental exposure.“Because of the fear of social contact, nobody fully knows who has it and who doesn’t it,” she said.Still, there are some options for people who are feeling both healthy and altruistic. The Times spoke with several organizations about how best to help.Older people seem to be particularly susceptible to contracting the coronavirus, according to health officials. Some are staying at home and, as a precaution, may not open their doors to visitors.One way to check on homebound older residents without jeopardizing their health is to call or send a text, said Eric. S. Goldstein, the chief executive officer of the UJA-Federation of New York, which provides food, health care and other services to people in need.If telephone calls and texts are not an option, “talk through the door,” Mr. Goldstein said. Because some people may recoil at the suggestion that they are not self-sufficient, Mr. Goldstein suggested offering to help in a low-key way, such as saying, “I’m running to the market, can I get you anything?”Last week, the UJA-Federation of New York canceled a dinner gala in Westchester hours before it was to take place. The food had already been paid for, so the organization asked its caterer if it could be boxed up and delivered to people quarantined in Westchester, where many of New York’s cases are linked. The caterer agreed.The food was delivered via a method that could be described as a ding-dong-dash. Recipients were notified in advance that a delivery was on its way. Volunteers walked up to the door, rang the bell and left a bag of the packaged food on the door handle or porch.Then, the delivery volunteer left before the recipient opened the door.The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund has begun a special Covid-19 relief campaign. All proceeds will go to nonprofits that provide assistance to those facing economic hardship. Make a tax-deductible donation via GoFundMe.A spokeswoman for the Red Cross, which provides disaster relief and other services, said there was a need for blood donations.As the number of confirmed coronavirus cases grows, the number of people eligible to give blood decreases, said Greta Gustafson, a spokeswoman for the organization.More than 125 Red Cross blood drives nationwide have been canceled as of March 10 over coronavirus concerns, and that number is expected to increase, she said.Lots of organizations, such as food banks and social services groups, offer direct help for people in need and may be one of the first places people turn if they are hurt economically by the virus. Organizations offer help without regard to people’s religious affiliations.[The New York Times is keeping an updated list of the school closings in the New York area here.]“One of the things we’re doing is trying to, as much as possible, is maintain the services we do ordinarily,” Msgr. Kevin Sullivan, executive director of Catholic Charities of New York said.Kristina Reintamm, a spokeswoman for Brooklyn Community Services, a nonprofit serving low-income residents, said in addition to donating, people could offer a simple “word of encouragement” to front-line social workers who do not have the option of working from home.The Hebrew Free Loan Society typically provides interest-free loans of up to $7,500 to low-income people who have two guarantors and reside in New York City, Long Island or Westchester. This week, in response to the virus, the organization modified its application process: Interest-free loans of up to $5,000 are now available to people in those areas with only one guarantor needed.Rabbi David Rosenn, executive director of the organization, said donations made to the organization are used as capital to make a loan. Once the loan is repaid, the capital is given out as a new loan.Another nonprofit organization, RIP Medical Debt, based in Rye, N.Y., buys medical debt at a discount and then forgives the loans. During a crisis like the coronavirus, people “might work up until their condition becomes critical and they need to go to an E.R.,” said Daniel Lempert, a spokesman for the group.Updated April 4, 2020The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing.If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others.If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested.It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face.No. The first testing in humans of an experimental vaccine began in mid-March. Such rapid development of a potential vaccine is unprecedented, but even if it is proved safe and effective, it probably will not be available for 12 to18 months.Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard.If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently.Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home.Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea.That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years.Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.”Advertisement