https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/20/well/we-wrote-you-a-hand-washing-song-listen-up.html
We Wrote You a Hand-Washing Song: Listen Up - The New York Times
META-KEYWORDS NOT FOUND
163
AdvertisementSupported byThanks to coronavirus, the time has come for a new song to help us properly wash our hands.By Marc ShaimanIf you didn’t hate the Happy Birthday song already, you probably do now — it’s the song that we’ve all been told to sing twice as we wash our hands, to make sure we’ve done it long enough to be effective. Last week, it occurred to Susan Dominus, a reporter at The New York Times, that there should be an alternative, to spare the Happy Birthday song from so many unpleasant associations. This is when she called my co-lyricist, Scott Wittman, and me with a proposal: Maybe we could come up with an alternative? The new song would have to be fun — and, of course, last 20 seconds.Being self-isolated makes one happy to have a project — plus, it would feel good to write something that might put a happy spin on this situation we are in, even if for just a few momentsFor the occasion, Scott and I — we wrote the songs for “Hairspray” and “Mary Poppins Returns,” among others — created “Twenty Seconds,” which will hopefully turn you and your children into mini Danny Kayes. (Google Danny Kaye right now, I’ll wait…).We sent the song to some Broadway friends to help perform our new hand washing anthem. And they have channeled their energy into these homemade videos.The first is Jake Ryan Flynn from “Charlie and the Chocolate Factory” and “Mrs. Doubtfire:” transcriptSinging: Twenty seconds isn’t long. Barely time to sing this song. There’s no time to get it wrong. Not in 20 seconds. All that’s left is 14 secs to try to do what I must next. I can’t talk, please send a text! I’ve only 20 seconds — 20 seconds, now is 5, so kick it into overdrive! Ain’t it great to know that I’ve washed my hands for 20 seconds!Then, we have Samantha Williams, formerly from “Dear Evan Hansen,” and the forthcoming revival of “Caroline, or Change:” transcriptSinging: Twenty seconds isn’t long. Barely time to sing this song. There’s no time to get it wrong. Not in 20 seconds. All that’s left is 14 secs to try to do what I must next. I can’t talk, please send a text! I’ve only 14 seconds — 20 seconds, now is 5, so kick it into overdrive! Ain’t it great to say that I’ve washed my hands for 20 seconds!For some extra fun, here is yours truly:transcriptSinging: Twenty seconds isn’t long. Barely time to sing this song. There’s no time to get it wrong. Not in 20 seconds. All that’s left is 14 secs to try to do what I must next. I can’t talk, please send a text! I’ve only 14 seconds — 20 seconds, now is 5, so kick it into overdrive! Ain’t it great to know that I’ve washed my hands for 20 seconds!But why stop at just one song? We created not one, but two songs. The second one, with a huge tip of the hat to Barbra Streisand and her lyricist Lan O’Kun, is called “Half a Minute Waltz.” Try wrapping your tongue around these new hand-washing lyrics set to Chopin’s greatest hit. We are happy to have Broadway’s Bryce Pinkham (best known for his Tony-nominated performance in “A Gentleman’s Guide to Love and Murder”), to show you how it’s done. Wait till you see his over-the-shoulder paper towel toss!transcriptSinging: Turn the water on and start your hands a rubbin’. Now it’s time to soap ’em up and start to scrubbin’. You must work it up into a lather. Even though I know that you would rather. Be outside where there is dirt for you to play. But now’s the time for you to send the dirt away. So both your hands should wash away your troubles. Let your fingers dance among the bubbles. Keep a steady pace and please try not to fidget. Clean your thumbs and don’t forget to scrub each digit. Now it’s time to concentrate upon your nails. For that is where the dirt can leave it’s secret trails. Now it’s finally time for turning off the faucet. Use a paper towel then in the trash you’ll toss it. To stay healthy this is what the world commands. Bravo to you! You washed your hands!So now, dear reader, since so many of you may have some time on your hands — which hand-washing challenge can you meet?We’ve provided the lyrics for “Twenty Seconds” and the “Half a Minute Waltz” below. And although a cappella is one way to go, we also offer piano tracks and sheet music in varying keys for all, so whether you’re a soprano, alto, tenor or baritone, you’ve no excuse!Please make your own videos and post on Instagram at #20secondhandwash — extra points for perfect hand-washing form! At the very least, your hands will be clean.Spread the word (not the germs)! As for Happy Birthday — let’s save it for happier occasionsTwenty seconds isn’t long,Barely time to sing this song.There’s no time to get it wrong,Not in twenty seconds!All that’s left is fourteen secs,To try to do what I must next.I can’t talk, please send a text!I’ve only fourteen seconds. Twenty seconds, now is five,So kick it into overdrive! Ain’t it great to say that I’ve, Washed my hands for twenty seconds!Turn the water on and start your hands a rubbin’Now it’s time to soap ‘em up and start to scrubbin’You must work it up into a lather,Even though I know that you would rather, Be outside where there is dirt for you to play, But now’s the time for your to send the dirt away. So both your hands should wash away your troubles.Let your fingers dance among the bubbles. Keep a steady pace and please try not to fidget,Clean your thumbs and don’t forget to scrub each digit. Now it’s time to concentrate upon your nails,For that is where the dirt can leave its secret trails. Now it’s finally time for turning off the faucet. Use a paper towel, then in the trash you’ll toss it. To stay healthy this is what the world commands. Bravo to you! You washed your hands!Illustration by Super FreakUpdated April 4, 2020The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing.If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others.If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested.It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face.No. The first testing in humans of an experimental vaccine began in mid-March. Such rapid development of a potential vaccine is unprecedented, but even if it is proved safe and effective, it probably will not be available for 12 to18 months.Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard.If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently.Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home.Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea.That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years.Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.”Advertisement