https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-myths.html
The Coronavirus Myths You Should Not Fall For - The New York Times
META-KEYWORDS NOT FOUND
130
AdvertisementSupported byMisconceptions about what can protect you are becoming just as contagious as the virus.By Dani BlumThis article was originally published on March 2, 2020 and last updated on April 3, 2020. This is a fast-moving situation, so some information may be outdated. For the latest updates, read The New York Times’s live coronavirus coverage here.As the coronavirus continues to spread across the globe, confusion and misconceptions about what can protect you are becoming as contagious as the virus. We spoke to doctors and experts in infectious diseases about whether there’s any truth to these common claims.[The topics parents are talking about. Evidence-based guidance. Personal stories that matter. Sign up now to get NYT Parenting in your inbox every week.]Maybe. Hand sanitizers with over 60 percent alcohol are effective in killing viruses like the coronavirus, Dr. William Schaffner, M.D., a professor of preventive medicine and infectious diseases at Vanderbilt University Medical Center said. But no one knows for sure if they will work on the current virus. Gels like Purell may be easier for small children in particular, who may lack the coordination to do the full hand washing technique recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, vigorously scrubbing both sides and between the fingers for at least 20 seconds. But washing hands is still crucial, and potentially more effective in protecting you, since it both removes germs and the dirt they cling to. “You can’t do it enough,” said H. Cody Meissner, M.D., chief of the division of pediatric infectious disease at Tufts University School of Medicine and a member of the American Academy of Pediatrics’ Committee on Infectious Diseases. Antibacterial soap has no added benefit, Dr. Schaffner said. “Just be thorough — and don’t forget your thumbs!”No. You might be tempted to bulk order vitamin C or other supposedly immune-boosting supplements, but their effectiveness is a long-standing fallacy. Even in the cases of colds or flus, vitamin C hasn’t shown a consistent benefit. “If there’s going to be an advantage, it’s going to be very modest,” Dr. Schaffner said. That said, extra vitamin C won’t do you any harm — “unless you’re just downing bottles of it,” said Dr. Frank Esper, M.D., a pediatric infectious disease specialist at Cleveland Clinic Children’s hospital. In those cases excessive vitamin C can be damaging to the stomach and kidneys. There is no evidence that supplements like zinc, green tea and echinacea are beneficial to prevent coronavirus, said Dr. Mark J. Mulligan, M.D., division director of the infectious diseases and vaccine center at NYU Langone Medical Center. “I do not recommend spending money on supplements for this purpose.”President Trump announced on April 3, 2020 that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommend that all Americans should wear “nonmedical, cloth” masks in public.Previously, the C.D.C., like the World Health Organization, advised that people didn’t need to wear masks unless they were sick and coughing or caring for someone who was. Researchers are finding that there are more cases of asymptomatic transmission than were known at the start of the outbreak.Public health officials have urged that N95 masks should be saved for front line doctors and nurses, who have been in dire need of protective gear.Not really. Wearing gloves is “probably not effective” in preventing the spread of the virus, Dr. Esper said, “because then what are you doing with them? Eventually, the gloves themselves become contaminated.” Most gloves have minute holes, Dr. Meissner said. “Just simple hand washing with soap and water is the most time-tested and the most effective intervention.”Yes, but not for coronavirus. You might have the sense from social media that flu shots help ward off coronavirus. While the flu shot has no impact on coronavirus, Dr. Schaffner said, we are still at the tail end of flu season. Getting a flu shot is “absolutely helpful” for ensuring good health in general, Dr. Esper said. “You’re much more likely to get influenza right now than you are to get coronavirus.”[What parents need to know about coronavirus.]Abby Goodnough contributed reporting.Updated April 4, 2020The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing.If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others.If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested.It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face.No. The first testing in humans of an experimental vaccine began in mid-March. Such rapid development of a potential vaccine is unprecedented, but even if it is proved safe and effective, it probably will not be available for 12 to18 months.Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard.If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently.Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home.Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea.That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years.Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.”Advertisement