https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/19/nyregion/coronavirus-nyc-delivery-workers.html
The Delivery Workers Who Risk Their Health to Bring You Food - The New York Times
META-KEYWORDS NOT FOUND
125
AdvertisementSupported byDemand for home delivery is rising, and New Yorkers barricaded in their homes are leaning more and more on a largely immigrant work force.By Kimiko de Freytas-Tamura and Jeffrey E. SingerChen Wei’s wife begged him to stop making restaurant deliveries because she feared he might contract the coronavirus from a customer.Lee Mengba, another delivery worker, wondered if the hand that reached out for the bag of medication from behind an apartment door on a recent run belonged to a quarantined patient.Adolfo Garcia tries to deliver pizza “in four seconds,” sometimes leaving boxes near the elevator on the first floor of apartment buildings for customers to grab. He disinfects his hands after each delivery — so often that his skin is dry and cracked.As New Yorkers barricade themselves in their homes to practice “social distancing,” delivery workers, typically an overlooked group, have now taken on outsized significance and are on the front lines of the outbreak.With demand for deliveries surging, a largely immigrant work force has become a critical link, providing food, groceries, medication and many other items that many people can no longer easily access or are unwilling to go out and purchase.Beside risking their own health, workers typically earn meager salaries and have no health insurance or any other labor protections.Their predicament was reflected in a recent group chat among Chinese delivery workers, who weighed the risks of working and getting sick.“You can make money anytime, but without a healthy body, nothing exists,” wrote one. “Besides, the money you earn won’t be enough to cover medical bills if you get sick,” he added.“I’m afraid to make deliveries because I’m afraid to die,” fretted another. “America,” texted a third, “is not easy.”Demand for delivery is on the rise across the country since the outbreak, according to analysts, with grocery apps like Walmart Grocery and Shipt recording major spikes in downloads.Amazon announced this week that it would hire 100,000 additional warehouse and delivery workers to meet the soaring demand. A spokeswoman said the company was filling 4,000 positions in New York State, the majority of them in New York City.On Tuesday, in the West Village, about 60 delivery workers were gathered on a street lined with restaurants, waiting to take orders that arrived about every two minutes.Aside from food, orders for alcohol were also on the rise, said Enrique Sanchez, who manages a liquor shop in the Hell’s Kitchen neighborhood in Manhattan. “People don’t want to come out,’’ he said. “We usually sell a lot of wine, but now people want spirits too,” he said.DoorDash and Uber Eats, two major food delivery companies, said they would provide up to 14 days of financial assistance to any of their workers who are diagnosed with coronavirus and have to self-quarantine.DoorDash is also providing hand sanitizers and gloves for its workers.Instacart, a grocery delivery start up, rolled out a new feature called “Leave at My Door Delivery,” which gives customers the option to have an order left at their door during a designated time frame instead of having an in-person handoff.Still, many delivery workers said all they have received so far from restaurants or delivery companies were words of caution: If you feel sick, stay home.“There is no precaution. It’s a risky job,’’ said Alexis Dabire, a delivery worker in Manhattan who regularly talks with his wife in Burkina Faso over FaceTime to assure her that he is well. “They have never given us anything for protection except for words.”Jing Wang, an organizer of the Biking Public Project, an advocacy group for delivery workers, said they were a particularly vulnerable work force with no collective power, and they have no choice but to continue working even as so many others are staying home.“They’re on their own,” Ms. Wang said. “Their protection is self-provided. They’ve bought gloves, face masks, because some of their employers, including the apps, haven’t provided them with any.”To help ease the burden somewhat, Mayor Bill de Blasio said this week that the police would suspend the ticketing of delivery workers who use electric bikes, which are illegal in the city, because the workers were providing a crucial service.Carlos Menchaca, a city councilman from Brooklyn, and Ydanis Rodriguez, who represents the 10th district in Manhattan and is chairman of the council’s transportation committee, had pressed the mayor on the issue.“As the city shuts down schools, and prepares to limit all restaurants, bars and cafes to takeout and delivery, it is no secret that most who will be preparing and delivering meals will be immigrants,” Mr. Menchaca and Mr. Rodriguez wrote.“We must provide them and their families with the certainty that the N.Y.P.D. will not use this moment as an opportunity to crack down on the technology they are using to keep us fed,” they added.Mr. Chen had been delivering food for Red House, a Chinese restaurant in Manhattan, for eight months when the outbreak struck.His wife pleaded with him to stop working, worried that he could endanger the health of their two children. His biggest fear, he said, was elevators, “a small space with so many people it doesn’t matter what kind of ventilation it has.”He finally resigned last weekend, telling the owner of the restaurant, Lin Kai, that he couldn’t work for him anymore. “I told him I understood,” Mr. Lin said. “We’re all a little nervous. It’s a period of high anxiety.”Though some workers like Mr. Chen have decided not to risk their health at the expense of lost income, others like Ashikur Rahman said he cannot afford to stay home.“So many people are scared, and I am too. But I need the money,” he said, as he cycled over the Williamsburg Bridge from Manhattan into Brooklyn for the third time on a recent day.He was carting five cases of beer, one of several beer runs. “I’m delivering so much beer, it’s crazy. And they’re so heavy too,” he said wearily.Like Mr. Rahman, Mr. Lee, who arrived to the United States in 2011 from Shanghai, has had to weigh his options.There’s no way to know who is infected, he said. “You don’t know where these people are. They could be anywhere.” At the same time, he doesn’t have health insurance. “If I get sick, I have to stay at home. How do I pay rent? I don’t have any other income. If I don’t work, there’s just no income.”Mr. Lee, 59, who lives alone, works for Caviar, another food delivery app.On a recent run from a Vietnamese restaurant in SoHo to an apartment building in the West Village, he was approached in the lobby by a woman holding a bag from a C.V.S. pharmacy, he said. “Would you deliver this for me?” she asked him. It was for a friend who lived in the building, she said, but didn’t want to go herself.Mr. Lee said he hesitated. But he had on a fresh pair of disposable gloves, so he figured it was safe. Then, the woman handed him a $50 bill. No need for change, she said.After completing his food delivery on the second floor, he continued on to the fifth floor, to apartment 5Y, to drop off the bag of medication. As he turned to leave, he caught the silhouette of a young man picking up the bag. No words were exchanged, he said.As he left the building, Mr. Lee immediately disposed of his gloves in a nearby garbage can. He decided that would be his last delivery for the day.“That’s enough,” he said he thought to himself.Updated April 4, 2020The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing.If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others.If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested.It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face.No. The first testing in humans of an experimental vaccine began in mid-March. Such rapid development of a potential vaccine is unprecedented, but even if it is proved safe and effective, it probably will not be available for 12 to18 months.Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard.If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently.Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home.Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea.That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years.Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.”Advertisement