https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/27/smarter-living/how-you-can-make-your-home-safer.html
How You Can Make Your Home Safer - The New York Times
META-KEYWORDS NOT FOUND
140
AdvertisementSupported byNow that you are staying at home to protect yourself from spreading coronavirus, here’s what you need to do to protect your family as well.By Sanam YarAs cases of the coronavirus increase across the country, many states are advising people to stay at home as much as possible and abide by social distancing measures.Though mandates vary from state to state, millions of Americans are minimizing their exposure to other people and preventing the spread of the virus across communities by not leaving the house, other than for necessities like grocery shopping.So, now that you’re at home, what should you be doing to safeguard your residence against coronavirus? There are some simple practices you can follow to help reduce the risk of being exposed to or spreading the virus.The best advice is the simplest: Wash your hands frequently with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. Do it when you come in from outside, and before eating or preparing food. Hand sanitizer that contains a minimum of 60 percent alcohol also works. And whatever you do, don’t touch your face.While there’s no definitive answer for whether you should remove your shoes when you enter the house, it may be a good general public health practice to change into house slippers after walking outside, said Dr. Boris Lushniak, the dean of the School of Public Health at the University of Maryland. “This has nothing to do with Covid-19 — just with cleanliness in the house,” he said.The same reasoning applies to changing out of clothing you’ve worn outside once you’re indoors, he said. “If, for example, someone sneezes or coughs on you, then obviously change clothes,” he said. “My sense is, let’s just be wary of what we’re doing and what kind of contact we have.”Have a conversation with all members of your household (especially children) about regular hand-washing.If possible, try to plan for two weeks worth of meals and any other essentials to limit the number of trips needed for more supplies. If you’re able to, stock up on at least a 30-day supply of any necessary prescriptions as well.Pick a room — and a bathroom, if you have a spare — that a member of the household can use to undergo stricter quarantine in the event that they become sick or come into contact with someone who is ill. If someone in your home is a member of a population that is more at risk of developing severe side effects from coronavirus, including older people and those with underlying health conditions, try to create a “protected space” for their use. Even if you appear healthy, assume you’ve come into contact with the virus and wash your hands before interacting with them.If someone in your household begins coughing, sneezing or exhibiting other mild symptoms, Dr. Lushniak recommends giving that person space and putting them in isolation away from others. Designate a lined trash can for any sick house member’s use to help decrease the risk of infecting others. Wear gloves when handling trash, and make sure to wash your hands afterward.And sick or not sick, now is not the time to share things like cutlery, plates, towels and toothbrushes with other people in your household, said Dr. John Townes, the medical director of Infection Prevention and Control at Oregon Health and Science University.When it comes to cleaning the house, the C.D.C. recommends cleaning and disinfecting frequently touched surfaces daily. Be mindful of surfaces like doorknobs, phones, keyboards, light switches, toilet handles, countertops and remote controls that get frequently used. Wear disposable gloves while cleaning, if you have them.Some research suggests that the virus may be able to survive for up to three days on surfaces like plastic and steel. Though experts say the risk of infection from these materials is low, they recommend wiping down things like delivered packages with disinfectant wipes and washing your hands if you are worried.If you are using your car, don’t forget to disinfect the interior of your vehicle, like the steering wheel, as needed. “Be aware of who’s in your car, and clean afterward as necessary,” said Dr. Lushniak. He recommended keeping windows open while driving to avoid recirculated air among passengers.Make sure to clean dirty surfaces with soap and water or detergent. If you choose to use a household disinfectant, find one certified by the Environmental Protection Agency. Other options the C.D.C. recommends for disinfecting include solutions with at least 70 percent alcohol, as well as diluted bleach solutions.Closely following the instructions listed on household cleaners will ensure they’re effectively disinfecting the area, Dr. Townes said.But even if you have all the disinfectants in the world and regularly clean household surfaces, Dr. Lushniak stressed that above all else, washing your hands is still the most effective thing you can do to prevent the spread of this disease.When doing laundry, use the warmest appropriate setting and dry items fully. If you have disposable gloves, wear them while doing laundry. If someone in your household is sick, it’s possibly safest to wash their clothes, towels and bedding separately. Be sure to clean and disinfect laundry hampers, too.If you do your laundry at a laundromat, avoid going when it is full. “You have to be really cognizant of social distancing,” Dr. Lushniak said. “If you’re going to a laundromat, you ultimately want to stay at least six feet away from others, and if you can’t, come back at another time when it’s less busy.”Touching several surfaces while doing laundry is inevitable, so avoid touching your face until you’ve used hand sanitizer or washed your hands.Remember all those times your mother told you to crack open your window and let in some fresh air? Turns out she was right. “Fresh air is great and we’re trying to avoid the idea of being in enclosed spaces with recirculated air,” Dr. Lushniak said. Open some windows!Practicing mental and physical fitness at home is also important. If you can, try doing an exercise routine at home, stretching or even doing something as simple as jumping jacks. Reading a book, meditating, playing a game or just otherwise giving yourself a break from the news is a good idea.So, to reiterate, stay calm, and practice the same tried-and-true basic health practices that have existed for “well over a century,” Dr. Lushniak said.“Wash your hands, use hygienic measures to cover a cough or sneeze, clean your surfaces, stay at home,” he said. “If you’re sick, stay away from others, and finally, take care of yourselves.”Updated April 4, 2020The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing.If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others.If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested.It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face.No. The first testing in humans of an experimental vaccine began in mid-March. Such rapid development of a potential vaccine is unprecedented, but even if it is proved safe and effective, it probably will not be available for 12 to18 months.Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard.If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently.Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home.Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea.That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years.Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.”Advertisement