https://www.nytimes.com/article/face-masks-coronavirus.html
Coronavirus Face Masks: Where Are They? - The New York Times
META-KEYWORDS NOT FOUND
145
AdvertisementSupported byIn the United States, there is a shortage of medical equipment. What’s going on?By Amelia NierenbergAs the heath care system strains to accommodate the unprecedented challenge of the coronavirus outbreak, many medical professionals on the front lines do not have adequate protection.Some are reusing masks and gloves. Others have taken to social media with public pleas for help using the hashtag #GetMePPE, an acronym for personal protective equipment. Without proper covering, every new bedside visit might prove fatal, especially for older physicians and their families.And already, dozens of health care workers across the country have fallen ill. Hundreds more have been forced into quarantine.“The sky is falling,” one doctor wrote in an opinion piece for The New York Times.“We’re heading into the abyss,” wrote another.The short supply of masks in particular is dire.The coronavirus is transmitted by droplets from coughing or contaminated surfaces, so properly applied protective gear can go a long way toward keeping doctors safe.At minimum, doctors should be wearing gloves, gowns, eye gear and masks. But for weeks, hospitals have been running dangerously low on essential supplies.Many doctors said they were being given just one mask, to use indefinitely. Between patients, they spray it down with a disinfectant or wipe it off, hoping for the best. But they feared that being forced to reuse a mask might infect patients who did not yet have the virus.In part, a widespread buying of masks by anxious citizens limited commercial supply. Experts say masks and respirators are not effective for protecting the general public, but are crucial for health care workers.Also, the prolonged outbreak in China dwindled supply. Even before the coronavirus emerged, China produced about half of the world’s masks. During the outbreak, it expanded its mask production by nearly 12-fold.(The outbreak also comes after a particularly mask-intensive few months. Wildfires in California and in Australia had already diminished the supply of some humanitarian organizations.)On Friday, President Trump said at his daily White House briefing that the Centers for Disease Control recommended that all Americans use basic “non-medical, cloth” masks on a voluntary basis.“You can do it. You don’t have to do it. I’m choosing not to do it,” Mr. Trump said. “It’s only a recommendation.”The federal C.D.C., like the World Health Organization, had advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. (The New York Times and other news outlets had been reporting the C.D.C.’s previous guidance.)The C.D.C. now recommends that everyone wear face coverings in public settings, like pharmacies and grocery stores, to avoid unwittingly spreading the virus. Public health officials have continued to stress, however, that N95 masks and surgical masks should be saved for front-line doctors and nurses, who have been in dire need of protective gear.Ideally, clinicians would be using a new, tightly-sealed respirator, like the N95, with each patient. These are thicker than standard surgical masks, and are designed to fit more tightly around the mouth and nose to block out much smaller particles. The Food and Drug Administration said that neither surgical masks nor N95s should be shared or be reused.As the outbreak worsened and there were shortages in medical supplies across the country, the C.D.C. updated its recommendations for optimizing the supply of protective gear.Now, except in the case of intubations, which involve inserting a breathing tube, the agency says standard surgical masks are acceptable when examining or treating a coronavirus patient. (This aligns more closely with the W.H.O., which advises that surgical masks can be used in some situations, but warns that they are not sufficient on their own.)Some medical professionals suggested that the C.D.C.’s new recommendations are borne of political expediency instead of science.“We are concerned that C.D.C. recommendations are based solely on supply chain and manufacturing challenges,” the American Nurses Association said in a public letter.Now, the C.D.C. also outlines a crisis strategy for wearing the same mask for repeated encounters with different patients. It suggests medical professionals may need to use masks beyond the manufacturer-designated shelf life date, and to prioritize the use of masks for activities in which there may be sprays, splashes or prolonged exposure.“As a last resort,” the C.D.C. says “homemade masks” like a bandanna or a scarf can be used, although their protective ability is unknown.The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund has begun a special Covid-19 relief campaign. All proceeds will go to nonprofits that provide assistance to those facing economic hardship. Make a tax-deductible donation via GoFundMe.At a news conference in March at the White House, Vice President Mike Pence said the federal government had ordered “hundreds of millions” of N95s for health care centers across the country, but he did not say precisely when they would be delivered to workers.The White House also signaled that American companies have been increasing efforts to restock hospitals, citing that Hanes and General Motors will make masks. But it again stopped short of discussing in detail any sort of fulfillment of the more assertive demands coming from some state and local leaders. Some doctors in Oregon and in Washington have recently received gear from the Strategic National Stockpile, a federal repository of critical medical supplies for public health emergencies. But officials in both states said it was far less than what they had requested.There have been other efforts to donate masks. In New York, the Federal District Court in Manhattan donated and delivered 1,000 N95s that were in storage to the Hospital for Special Surgery. On Wednesday, some N95s reserved for construction work were temporarily approved for medical use by the F.D.A.Individual doctors are looking out for one another, too. Some are shipping supplies to colleagues across the country. Others are just grateful for people leaving donations outside their doors.Abby Goodnough, Margot Sanger-Katz, Benjamin Weiser and Sanam Yar contributed reporting.Updated April 4, 2020The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing.If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others.If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested.It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face.No. The first testing in humans of an experimental vaccine began in mid-March. Such rapid development of a potential vaccine is unprecedented, but even if it is proved safe and effective, it probably will not be available for 12 to18 months.Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard.If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently.Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home.Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea.That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years.Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.”Advertisement