https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/20/style/self-care/isolation-exercise-meditation-coronavirus.html
Exercise, Health and Self-Care for Coronavirus Isolation and Quarantine - The New York Times
META-KEYWORDS NOT FOUND
155
AdvertisementSupported bySix things you can do right at this moment, along with some simple exercise equipment to get for your house.By Anna Goldfarb“Trying to preserve some sense of normalcy is really important for people’s well-being,” said Dr. Russell G. Buhr, a pulmonologist at U.C.L.A. Health. Maintaining a routine, he said, like getting up and getting dressed and doing what you usually do, can positively affect mental health.“And good mental health promotes good physical health,” he added.But there’s more to do. Dani Johnson, a physical therapist at the Mayo Clinic Healthy Living Program, encourages people who are staying home to get creative. “Every little bit of movement counts,” she said. “So when we’re confined to our home, move, move, move.”You don’t need fancy equipment or a lot of time; you just need to weave exercise into your schedule.The American Heart Association recommends adults engage in at least 150 minutes (two and a half hours) per week of moderate-intensity aerobic activity, or 75 minutes per week of vigorous aerobic activity. A combination of both would work too, preferably spread throughout the week.Let’s start with six things you can do every day to maintain your physical and mental health if you’re isolating at home.Next time you watch a TV show, get up and do some squats during the commercials, Ms. Johnson said. Do heel raises when you’re washing dishes. Do side lunges when you’re throwing clothes in the dryer.Knock out some push-ups when you’re waiting for a pot of water to boil. Dancing is also a great way to move your body. Turn on some music and boogie with your partner or children.There are ways to add resistance even when lacking proper gym equipment. Ms. Johnson recommends tossing cans of food in a bag: “Suddenly, that becomes a weight for you.”Come up with games you can play with children. Anything where you’re crawling, jumping and skipping could work. “If you have stuff in your house and you have a body, you’ve got a great exercise tool,” she said. (You can read more about how to get strong here.)“Stairs can be your cardiovascular best friend,” Ms. Johnson said. If you have access to stairs in your home or apartment, going up and down those stairs is a great way to get your blood pumping.For a great full-body home workout, you can do an entire circuit sequence for up to 30 to 45 minutes. If you are working movement into your daily tasks, she also suggests creating more activity while doing things you already need to get done. For example, if you’re carrying laundry upstairs, take an extra lap or two up and down the stairs to work in extra steps. “Every little bit counts toward a healthier you,” Ms. Johnson said.Dr. I-Min Lee, a professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School, recommends simple fitness exercises like marching in place, doing jumping jacks or jogging in place with high knees.“As long as the public health practitioners haven’t suggested a total lockdown, as long as you’re able to maintain a reasonable amount of distance and you’re being good about hand hygiene and especially if you’re staying completely home if you’re having any signs of illness, then getting outside for a walk is good,” Dr. Buhr said. “It clears your mind, and it keeps you active.”Everyone should all aim for 150 minutes of physical activity every week, he said, but the amount of time you walk each day can vary. What counts is that you’re moving your body.Stretching is essential, Dr. Lee said, because it helps maintain flexibility. Here are six simple barre stretches you can do in your home or outside. Ms. Johnson also likes the warrior pose stretch and the prayer stretch, which targets the lower back. In a Zoom meeting? Stretch right now.The Mayo Clinic says you should be stretching at least two to three times a week. And you should hold each stretch for 30 seconds for most areas and up to 60 seconds for sore or problem areas. Don’t bounce, which can cause injury. Expect to feel tension while you’re stretching, but not pain.Ms. Johnson recommends a technique called diaphragmatic breathing. Lie down on your back and put your hands on your abdominal region. When you breathe in, make your belly rise. And when you breathe out, your belly should fall. Stay in that position and take 10 deep breaths.“It’s really important that we take a few moments and pause and really just sort of relax ourselves and our nervous system,” Ms. Johnson said. (Read more about how to breathe to feel better.)Make sure you clean up after yourself. Dr. Buhr said that even if you’re doing activities in your home, you still need to observe the same kind of hygiene practices that health officials are advising.You should wash your hands carefully and try not to touch your face. If you need to touch your face, he recommends using a clean towel. And if you’re using any kind of gym equipment at home, clean it with soap and water or any household cleaner before and after so that if you’re sharing it with others, you’re not spreading germs around.Jumping rope gets your heart rate up and burns a lot of calories. Wirecutter, a New York Times company that reviews and recommends products, likes the XYLsports Jump Rope. It’s affordable enough that everyone in your household can have their own.If the weather is crummy or you have a few minutes to spare while watching YouTube videos, whip out a hula hoop. A recent study showed that six weeks of weighted hula-hooping for an average of 13 minutes a day significantly decreased both waist circumference and body fat, and increased muscularity, compared to a period of walking.They help reduce muscle stiffness, and you can use a foam roller as a basic exercise tool. Wirecutter has options here.Ms. Johnson suggests ordering a package that includes a variety of resistance intensities because you will progress. Wirecutter likes the Bodylastics Stackable Tube Resistance Bands.Here’s a thorough guide to yoga for people of all experience levels, with links to a variety of apps and classes.If you’re looking to relax, this guide to yoga can help walk you through it.A series of six-minute workout videos that exercise four main muscle groups: cardio, the lower body, the upper body and the core.A guide to a nine-minute strength workout that should be used two to three times a week for maximum benefits.A guide to short high intensity interval training workouts.A guide to meditation, if you just need grounding.Updated April 4, 2020The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing.If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others.If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested.It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face.No. The first testing in humans of an experimental vaccine began in mid-March. Such rapid development of a potential vaccine is unprecedented, but even if it is proved safe and effective, it probably will not be available for 12 to18 months.Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard.If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently.Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home.Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea.That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years.Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.”Advertisement