https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/13/nyregion/alex-jones-coronavirus-cure.html
Alex Jones Is Told to Stop Selling Sham Anti-Coronavirus Toothpaste - The New York Times
META-KEYWORDS NOT FOUND
134
AdvertisementSupported byMr. Jones, who has used his radio show and website to promote conspiracy theories, is falsely claiming his products can fight the virus.By Luis Ferré-Sadurní and Jesse McKinleyThe New York State attorney general has issued a cease-and-desist order to Alex Jones, the conservative radio host, alarmed by false claims on his website that his diet supplements and toothpaste could be used to fight the coronavirus.Mr. Jones, according to the attorney general, made a series of claims: That his products could act as a “stopgate” against the virus, that his Superblue brand of toothpaste “kills the whole SARS-corona family at point-blank range.”There are no products, vaccines or drugs approved to treat or cure the virus.As the disease spreads across the United States, so too has online misinformation and the marketing of fraudulent products that claim to prevent the coronavirus, presenting government officials with a new frontier in their escalating fight against the outbreak.Sham products, from dietary supplements and food to medical devices and purported vaccines, have popped up on social media and digital marketplaces. Masks and respirators that were counterfeit or deceptively labeled have been listed on Amazon and eBay.Mr. Jones has accumulated much of his wealth from the sale of health-enhancement and survivalist merchandise on his website Infowars, a platform he has used to disseminate conspiracy theories, including the false narrative that the Sandy Hook school massacre was a hoax.The coronavirus outbreak presented Mr. Jones with yet another opportunity to monetize fear and deception, said Letitia James, the state attorney general, who issued her order on Thursday.“As the coronavirus continues to pose serious risks to public health, Alex Jones has spewed outright lies and has profited off of New Yorkers’ anxieties,” Ms. James, a Democrat said, adding that Mr. Jones’s claims are “incredibly dangerous.”In a statement on Friday, Jonathan W. Emord, a lawyer for “The Alex Jones Show” — the radio program — and Infowars called the allegations “false” and said the products were never intended “to be used in the treatment of any disease, including the novel coronavirus.”Mr. Emord said a prominent disclaimer would be posted on the website to make that explicitly clear.On Monday, the Trump administration issued warning letters to seven companies that were selling fraudulent coronavirus products including teas, essential oils, tinctures and colloidal silvers, and ordered them to take corrective measures within 48 hours.The government also delivered a warning to “The Jim Bakker Show,” which is hosted by the disgraced tele-evangelist Jim Bakker, for allegedly selling products labeled to contain silver and misleadingly saying they could treat and cure the coronavirus.Last week, Ms. James also sent a cease-and-desist letter to Mr. Bakker’s show to stop allowing the sale of colloidal silver — in which small flakes of silver are suspended in fluid — after a guest claimed that it could “eliminate” the disease within 12 hours.Colloidal silver is not safe or effective to treat any disease or symptoms, according to the Food and Drug Administration. It can even be dangerous to a person’s health, the National Institutes of Health has said.Another company that received a warning from the federal government, Colloidal Vitality L.L.C., purportedly marketed oils on Facebook with descriptions such as, “So it’s actually widely acknowledged in both science and the medical industry that ionic silver kills coronaviruses.”Joseph J. Simons, the chairman of the Federal Trade Commission, said in a statement that “what we don’t need in this situation are companies preying on consumers by promoting products with fraudulent prevention and treatment claims.”The federal government has begun to crack down on products that claim to cure or prevent Covid-19, the disease the coronavirus causes, through a surveillance program that monitors the internet for fraudulent sales.So far, a federal task force has helped remove more than three dozen listings of at least 19 products. It has urged online marketplaces and major retailers to police its listings.EBay recently said it would ban face masks and hand sanitizer listings altogether, while Amazon recently notified sellers that it was no longer accepting requests to sell masks, sanitizers, disinfecting wipes and sprays, among other products.And social media platforms including Facebook, which had struggled to curtail misinformation about the virus on its website, announced bans on ads that promise to cure the illness.Government officials are also tackling the price gouging of products that can help reduce the risk of falling ill with the disease, such as hand sanitizer and face masks.Federal and state lawmakers are considering anti-price-gouging legislation after reports of hand-sanitizer bottles selling for as much as $400.Luis Ferré-Sadurní reported from New York, and Jesse McKinley from Albany, N.Y.Updated April 4, 2020The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing.If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others.If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested.It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face.No. The first testing in humans of an experimental vaccine began in mid-March. Such rapid development of a potential vaccine is unprecedented, but even if it is proved safe and effective, it probably will not be available for 12 to18 months.Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard.If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently.Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home.Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea.That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years.Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.”Advertisement