https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/23/us/coronavirus-post-office-workers.html
As Postal Workers Fall Sick With Coronavirus, Colleagues Keep Working. And Worrying. - The New York Times
META-KEYWORDS NOT FOUND
153
AdvertisementSupported byThe coronavirus has affected about two dozen Postal Service workers around the country, and fear of a greater outbreak grows.By Sam DolnickChris Jackson was halfway through his overnight shift sorting the mail for delivery when he and several colleagues were summoned into a windowless conference room.The senior manager of the mail facility was there along with a representative from the union and other postal officials.They confirmed the rumors that had been swirling all night. One of their colleagues in the Bethlehem, Pa., mail facility had Covid-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus.They gave the staff the option of going home, and about half did. But the facility was not going to shut down. Instead, they set up cones around the area where the sick worker had been, and the overnight crew continued until dawn preparing the mail to be sent to people’s homes.“They said we need to have the delivery trucks out there,” Mr. Jackson said. “They said delivery trucks really instill confidence that it’s business as usual, that the mail is still getting to you.”Neither sleet, nor snow — nor the coronavirus. With tens of millions of people across huge swaths of the country on state-ordered lockdown, the mail has remained one of the few physical tethers to the wider world. Medicine, packages bought online, at-home coronavirus tests, even mail-in presidential ballots — all require a reliable federal mail system.But mail delivery requires a healthy work force, and postal workers have been falling sick across the country — Miami, Manhattan, Seattle, Portland and more have reported sick workers, according to Paul Hogrogian, national president of the National Postal Mail Handlers Union.On Thursday, 13 postal workers had tested positive; by Friday, that number was 20, including the one from the Bethlehem facility where Mr. Jackson works, according to Mr. Hogrogian. On Sunday, postal officials in Washington said the number was “fewer than 30.”With a work force of 630,000, those numbers are still relatively small, but they are expected to keep rising in the coming days and weeks. Mr. Jackson and other rank-and-file workers worry that the Postal Service is not doing enough to protect them, and that they could become unwitting carriers of the virus.“They had no plan and they weren’t proactive at all,” Mr. Jackson said. “It was just crazy to me.”FedEx and UPS workers are facing similar fears that their warehouses were contaminated or soon will be.When Mr. Jackson returned to work the night after the meeting, he said, the cones had been removed from the sick worker’s station and the crew was expected to keep going. Another Bethlehem colleague, Sean Craig, said he was continuing to report for work but was worried about his infant son and his 82-year-old mother.“The concern is there just wasn’t a plan in place,” Mr. Craig said. “It was fly by the seat of your pants, which made me very angry.”Mr. Craig and his colleagues have the option of staying at home and using their sick days or vacation days if they feel uncomfortable working. One employee reported for duty at 10 p.m., learned that a colleague had fallen sick, and was out the door by 10:30 p.m., Mr. Jackson said.Those that stayed debated whether they should use their time now, or bank their sick days in case things become even worse. Mr. Jackson reasoned that since he is 34, healthy and lives alone, he could afford the risk. “We haven’t hit the peak yet so let’s work through this right now,” he said, reflecting the view of some of his colleagues.But he said he felt like the nonessential parts of his job should be jettisoned to focus on delivering important goods and products. “We’re still sending brochures for cruise trips, thousands of them,” he said. “This doesn’t need to happen.”In a message to postal employees last week, Megan J. Brennan, the postmaster general, said that “there is no evidence the virus can spread through the mail.” A recent study in The New England Journal of Medicine suggests that the virus disintegrates over the course of a day on cardboard.But direct handling of the mail is only one aspect of the job inside postal facilities. Hundreds of people rotate through most warehouses, handling equipment, loading trucks, preparing the mail to be delivered door-to-door by letter carriers who in turn fan out to homes across their area. That leaves plenty of opportunities to spread the disease, Mr. Jackson said, and there has not been enough planning or support.“A lot of people asked, would they shut down the building for cleaning? Not an option,” he said.As for letter carriers who go door to door, new rules are quickly taking hold. Letter carriers walking up to people’s doorsteps are instructed to “politely ask the customer to step back a safe distance,” and to ask for their name instead of requesting their signature.Mr. Hogrogian, the union president, said he had been in direct conversation with senior postal officials about how to protect his people. The most glaring gap, he said, was that sometimes it took several days for officials to identify the people who had been in close contact with those who have tested positive.“If they can’t determine who’s been in close contact for three or four days,” he said, “that’s three or four more days that employees are allowed to work.”Updated April 4, 2020The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing.If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others.If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested.It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face.No. The first testing in humans of an experimental vaccine began in mid-March. Such rapid development of a potential vaccine is unprecedented, but even if it is proved safe and effective, it probably will not be available for 12 to18 months.Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard.If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently.Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home.Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea.That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years.Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.”Advertisement