https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/25/upshot/coronavirus-health-insurance-faq.html
How to Get Health Insurance if Worried About Coronavirus or Unemployment - The New York Times
META-KEYWORDS NOT FOUND
115
AdvertisementSupported byThere are more options for getting coverage than in past economic crises.By Margot Sanger-Katz and Reed AbelsonMost working-age Americans get their health insurance through their employer. Which means a job loss during the coronavirus pandemic could mean losing your health insurance.In past economic crises, options for buying affordable health insurance were limited. But provisions in the Affordable Care Act, along with actions taken recently by Congress and some states, mean more opportunities for getting coverage. Here’s a guide to the options, which differ depending on your circumstances.You can keep your coverage for as long as 18 months under the federal law known as the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA). But only if you’re willing to pay as much as the total amount of your premium (monthly fee) — both what you normally pay and what your employer had contributed toward your premium.Though particular circumstances vary, COBRA coverage tends to be more expensive than coverage in the Obamacare marketplaces. It may be a particularly desirable option for anyone in the middle of treatment for an acute or chronic condition because it will allow you to keep seeing the same doctors. Your employer may also be willing to subsidize some of the monthly cost for a period.In 36 states (plus the District of Columbia), you most likely qualify for the federal-state health insurance program known as Medicaid. Because of Obamacare, most states now allow all residents to qualify for Medicaid if their household’s monthly income is below a certain threshold — around $1,400 for a single person or $2,950 monthly for a family of four. That calculation should include any normal unemployment benefits you are receiving, but not the additional $600 a week being paid temporarily under new relief legislation, and not any special stimulus payments. There’s a list of states that have expanded their programs in this way here.For somewhat complicated reasons, the best way to apply for Medicaid if you’re in this situation is to go directly to your state Medicaid agency, not the Healthcare.gov site.Medicaid coverage typically has no or very low premiums, and has very low co-payments when you go to the doctor or fill a prescription. But it tends to cover fewer doctors than work-based insurance coverage does.If you live in a state that has not expanded its Medicaid program, qualifying for coverage may be harder. You may need to be a parent or meet other qualifications. Your child may qualify for coverage even if you don’t.If your monthly income is low enough to qualify for Medicaid but you expect your annual income to be higher than the above income thresholds, you could also choose to buy an Obamacare marketplace plan, probably with substantial subsidies. See below.If you have recently lost your job-based coverage, you can qualify for a special enrollment period to buy insurance on the Affordable Care Act marketplaces. Coverage there is subsidized on a sliding scale according to income, and there are several choices of plan in most markets. To look at your options, Healthcare.gov is a good first stop. Some states list insurance options on their websites, but the federal site will point you in the right direction.Depending on which state you live in, you may need to provide documents showing that you recently lost your job. You may also need to provide proof that your income is now lower than it was when you filed your last tax return, if it has fallen. In calculating your income for this purpose, you should include any unemployment benefits you are receiving, including the additional $600 a week that will be paid temporarily under the new economic relief legislation. You do not need to include any stimulus payment you get from the government.The subsidies people get for insurance in the Obamacare marketplace are calculated at the beginning of the year, based on estimated income for that year. But if you bought insurance and your income changes, you can go back to the marketplace and adjust. You may need to provide documents proving the income change, like a termination letter or a recent paycheck.At the end of the year, your subsidies will be settled once you file your taxes. If you miscalculated and received too much in subsidies, you will have to repay the difference then.Normally, you can sign up for insurance only once a year unless something major in your life changes, like a job loss, a divorce or a move to a new insurance market. But because of the coronavirus pandemic, some employers and states are loosening those rules. So far, 11 states and the District of Columbia are allowing uninsured residents to sign up for Obamacare plans now, regardless of why they are uninsured. The states are California, Colorado, Connecticut, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Nevada, New York, Rhode Island, Vermont and Washington, and you can go to their insurance marketplace websites.Some employers are doing the same, so it may be worth checking with your company’s human resources department if you’re still employed and eligible for work-based coverage.Short-term, limited-duration health plans are less likely to cover testing and treatment for coronavirus than more comprehensive plans offered through Medicaid, the Obamacare marketplaces or most workplaces. If you bought a plan like this and want to switch to a broader one, your options are similar to those for people with no insurance. If you are in a state with a special enrollment period, you can sign up for Obamacare insurance now. If your employer offers a special enrollment period, you may also be able to enroll in that type of coverage.But if you’re in a state that hasn’t changed its normal policy, you will be eligible to enroll in new coverage only if you have a qualifying life event like a divorce or if your income is low enough that you qualify for Medicaid.Updated April 4, 2020The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing.If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others.If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested.It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face.No. The first testing in humans of an experimental vaccine began in mid-March. Such rapid development of a potential vaccine is unprecedented, but even if it is proved safe and effective, it probably will not be available for 12 to18 months.Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard.If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently.Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home.Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea.That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years.Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.”Advertisement